Al Jazeera +05 October 2015 07:38:10 GMT+ 
The conflict in Syria is often described as the greatest humanitarian disaster of the 21st century. Half of Syria's population of 24 million has been displaced either internally or externally, and unprecedented numbers of refugees are frantically seeking safety in Europe. These include Muslims and Christians alike.
Many are professional people with transferable skills and some knowledge of English or French, but there are also tens of thousands of rural poor, who will find adapting to life on a different continent very difficult.







// <![CDATA[
RenderGeneralBCVideo(4530146639001,0,0,330,186, "bcvid_4530146639001");brightcove.createExperiences();
// ]]]] >





Syrian refugees continue flowing into Europe





Their push at the European door shows that they, too, want the life that Europeans lead: with freedom, democracy, and a chance to make their own way in an economic environment that is not strangled by corruption.
Ramifications of Sykes-Picot
Nevertheless, by drawing attention to the scale of this tragedy, commentators risk depriving it of context. It is but the latest - if not the largest - in a series of refugee crises arising from the events that followed on from the arbitrary partition of the Arabic-speaking provinces of the Ottoman Empire by Britain and France after World War I.
That partition led to injustices intertwined with instability, which have played their part in incubating the Syrian tragedy. Before Syria descended into chaos in 2011, it had been forced - as had Jordan and Lebanon - to accommodate successive waves of destitute people fleeing their homes.
Syria gave refuge to Iraqis escaping the effects of sanctions after 1990, and then from the organised crime and sectarian strife which have been hallmarks of the new Iraq since 2003. It did what it could with its limited resources, although the influx put strains on its economy and society.





When the father of Alan al Kurdi, the three year old who drowned in the surf near Bodrum, rebuked wealthy Arab states for not offering hospitality to Syrian refugees, many will have heard an echo of the plea of the Palestinians for justice.
 





The poorest refugees became very noticeable in the cities, where they almost drove the local shoe-shine boys out of business. Overcrowded schools were faced with a deluge of additional pupils for which there was little funding. At the same time, Iraqis with money started buying homes. This exacerbated a severe housing shortage and even led to a change in laws to restrict house purchases by foreigners.
Yet, this wasn't the only refugee crisis in the area at that time. During Israel's pulverisation of Lebanon in the summer of 2006, nearly one million Lebanese - perhaps over a quarter of the country's population - were displaced internally or turned into refugees who fled the country.
Around 180,000 entered Syria and were frequently welcomed by hospitable local families, even in the poorest areas of the country. These refugees were lucky since most were eventually able to return home.
Before that, during Lebanon's 15 years of civil war from 1975 to 1990, Lebanese were routinely forced to take refuge with their kith and kin in the heartland of their sect-tribe. Many of them, too, would finally be able to return to their homes.
Never-ending plight
But the earliest refugee crisis was that of Palestine at the end of the British Mandate. Even before the unilateral proclamation of the State of Israel in May 1948, much dispossession of Palestinians had already been carried out by the Zionist militias that would become the Israeli army.
As the Palestinian historian Rashid Khalidi has succinctly put it, those who set up the Jewish state, "understood the well-established demographic calculus of Palestine, which meant that without such ethnic cleansing, the new state would have had nearly as many Arabs as Jews".

Also read: Lost your compassion? Watch this film

Some of these refugees still live under Israeli occupation for the purposes of international law, such as the 70 percent of the population of Gaza who were driven into the enclave by Israeli forces. Although some of them live virtually in sight of their ancestral homes, they have little prospect of return.
Other Palestinians have made new lives abroad, but many have been unable to do so. With the exception of Jordan, Arab countries have been unwilling to give them full citizenship.











Their despair at their abandonment by the international community caused some to turn to armed resistance, something which led to the bloody crushing of the Palestinian Liberation Organisation (PLO) in Jordan during "Black September" in 1970, the eventual destabilisation of Lebanon in the 1970s, the Israeli invasion of 1982, in which thousands of civilians were killed, and, more recently, the suicide bombings and untargeted rockets fired at Israeli civilians by Hamas and other Islamist resistance groups.
When the father of Alan al Kurdi, the three year old who drowned in the surf near Bodrum, rebuked wealthy Arab states for not offering hospitality to Syrian refugees, many will have heard an echo of the plea of the Palestinians for justice.
With the future of Syria so uncertain, will many Syrians, too, now find themselves deprived of the right to return to their homes? If so, the long-term consequences on the stability of the area are unbearable to think about. 
John McHugo is the author of "A Concise History of the Arabs" and "Syria: A Recent History".
The views expressed in this article are the author's own and do not necessarily reflect Al Jazeera's editorial policy.Source: Al Jazeera +++ 
Al Jazeera +05 October 2015 14:45:28 GMT+ 
Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan has mocked EU overtures for help with its refugee crisis during a state visit to Belgium. 







// <![CDATA[
RenderGeneralBCVideo(4532366045001,0,0,330,186, "bcvid_4532366045001");brightcove.createExperiences();
// ]]]] >






The business of people-smuggling in Turkey






Erdogan boasted of his country's record in taking in 2 million refugees from neighbouring Syria and Iraq, and contrasted it with the numbers passing through the bloc in comments made during a televised meeting with Belgian business leaders.
"While we host 2.2 million refugees, Europe as a whole houses less than 250,000 refugees in total," Erdogan said.
He had told supporters in France the day before: "What do they say to us? ... 'Oh, my, don't open your doors, don't let them reach us,'" according to the Turkish Hurriyet newspaper.
European Union officials are hoping to convince Erdogan to shelter more Syrian refugees in return for aid.
Deadly journey
Tens of thousands of people are making the journey from Turkey to islands belonging to EU-member Greece, the first stage of a perilous journey towards northern and western European states.
The physical distances involved are not great, but the refugees are often loaded by traffickers onto flimsy and overcrowded rafts that frequently succumb to waves.
Hundreds have drowned when their boats were hit by waves, including 17 Syrian refugees who died trapped inside the cabin of their wooden boat in September.
The picture of three-year-old Syrian refugee Alan Kurdi, whose body was found washed up on a Turkish beach after a failed attempt to reach Greece, pressured European leaders to step up their response to the refugee crisis.Source: Reuters And Al Jazeera +++ 
Al Jazeera +05 October 2015 11:45:31 GMT+ 
Berlin, Germany - Just before 9am, hundreds of refugees have made their way towards the Senate Department for Health and Social Affairs office, known as LaGeSo, to register upon arrival in Germany.
But the authorities are struggling to organise so many people coming into the country fleeing war and persecution in places such as Iraq and Syria.
Some new arrivals pull themselves up off the cold sidewalk after sleeping outside all night, collect their meagre belongings, and head to the office. Others come in from refugee centres by train or bus.
According to LaGeSo, nearly 30,000 people have arrived in recent months. Accurate figures, however, are difficult to determine because many are not yet registered.

RELATED: Refugee crisis: Voices from the streets of  Germany

A single screen displays call numbers outside the LaGeSo building. When new numbers appear, those with matching tickets hustle through the crowd to obtain their registration paperwork. The process has been slow, and many refugees have waited weeks to receive documentation.
Abdullah, a 21-year-old Syrian refugee from Latakia, has been in Germany for two months. Like other Syrians quoted in this story, he requested his surname be withheld to protect family members back home. 
Having already received his registration papers, Abdullah was summoned to the office to receive a monetary stipend as he works through the asylum process. Yet he and his friend Muhammad were denied entry by private security guards.
'Go back to Syria'
"They told us to go home, they [were] Egyptian and they were cursing at us that we should go home and fight. We're supposed to be able to go straight in and not have to wait in line," Abdullah told Al Jazeera, pointing out there are not separate lines for those already registered and those who are not. 
Monika Hebbinghaus, a spokeswoman for LaGeSo, said German authorities are overwhelmed by the heavy workload that includes a multiple-stage registration process.
"By mid-October we are planning to open a second registration site at a former federal bank, which will only be for first-time arrivals," she told Al Jazeera, adding the move was implemented to "help lessen the pressure on the LaGeSo office".








Refugees are given call numbers and wait outside in the cold for hours for their turn to register [Ash Gallagher/Al Jazeera]





Hebbinghaus explained when refugees come in on trains from neighbouring countries they are often placed in various refugee centres and each day are bussed together to smaller registration facilities. 
But many of those standing outside the LaGeSo office were refugees who came into Germany through means other than government-coordinated trains, and who may be at different stages in the process.

RELATED: One million refugees may arrive in Germany this year

Wasim, a 30-year-old teacher from the southern Syrian city of Deraa, recalled encountering the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant group on his way out of the country. The fighters detained and interrogated him overnight - asking him questions about his family - before eventually allowing him to continue his journey to Turkey.
From Turkey, Wasim risked the perilous journey by boat to Greece. Once in Europe, he took buses and walked many parts of the journey across Serbia, Bosnia, Croatia and Austria before eventually arriving in Germany. 
Every day for the last three weeks, he has come to LaGeSo with the hopes of his number being called. "It is almost better to go back to Syria," he said.
Growing frustration
Moussa, 29, has made the trek to the LaGeSo office each day for the last two weeks, despite having a broken foot from a car accident. 
"If I wasn't injured, it would be easier to wait, but people keep hitting my foot," he said as the Iraqi refugee waited outside with crutches under his arms.
Another Syrian refugee, Samir, 47, who was a lawyer back in Deir az Zor, recalled putting his wife and children on a bus to Damascus before he took off. He hopes to bring his family to Germany once he obtains asylum, but said he's worried it could take almost a year.
He's grateful to Germany for opening its doors, Samir said, but frustrated it has taken so long to get settled.








German authorities are struggling to cope with the huge influx of refugees [Ash Gallagher/Al Jazeera]





The government-sponsored refugee camps are equally chaotic. In the Wilmersdorf district of Berlin, more than 800 people, including 200 children, are being hosted in an ageing, 1930s government building that had long been empty before their arrival.
Local authorities have outsourced the administration of the camp to Arbeiter-Samariter-Bund, a non-profit organisation. Covering the costs of the facility itself, the services the group provides for refugees - clothing, food, sanitary provisions, childcare, and German language courses - are only made possible because of nearly 3,000 volunteers.

RELATED: Germany fears far-right radicalisation over refugees

While some problems, such as clashes over sectarian divides, have occurred in some refugee centres, ASB's Patricia Ehred said their facility has been calm. "We have a house where people can go out and come in [without] feeling like they are in a prison," she told Al Jazeera.
But that does not mean meeting the daily needs of their residents has been easy. While the building is equipped with toilets and sinks, it does not have showers. Residents have to use portable shower units provided by volunteers. 
Although appreciative, Dia, an 18-year-old Damascus native, said he is frustrated that he still has not received identification papers. "The police took my passport and made me sign a piece of paper that says they own my passport unless I decide to refuse asylum." 
1.5 million refugees?
Speaking to Al Jazeera, the Federal Office of Migration and Refugees explained it is filling 1,000 new jobs to help process all the new applications. In 2014, asylum seekers on average waited seven months before receiving an answer. 

The German government expects an estimated one million refugees to enter the country before the end of the year, however, it could receive up to 1.5 million asylum-seekers by the end of 2015, according to a newspaper quoting a confidential document with estimates far higher than official figures.
Discouraged by having to endure a lengthy wait after their dangerous trips, many refugees said they may continue on to Scandinavian countries if they are unable to be registered soon. 








After making the perilous journey to Germany, many refugees have become disillusioned and are considering moving on to other countries [Ash Gallagher/Al Jazeera]





Source: Al Jazeera +++ 
Al Jazeera +04 October 2015 11:30:29 GMT+ 
Russia has added a volatile new dimension to Syria's four-year civil war after unleashing a wave of air strikes across the country.
Moscow has sent hundreds of troops, fighter jets, helicopter gunships, tanks, heavy artillery and other equipment, in response to a "request" by President Bashar al-Assad.
Assad's regime has been teetering on the brink after a string of heavy losses to rebels and the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL), and the arrival of Russian troops is an attempt to stem the tide.
Russian President Vladimir Putin has allocated $60bn from a secret fund to accelerate the military buildup despite the country's struggling economy.
Sanctions imposed by the West on Russia since March 2014 over its alleged support of pro-Russian rebels in eastern Ukraine have cost the country some $40bn.
Since then, its currency, the rouble, has slumped, oil prices have tumbled, and billions of dollars worth of assets have left the country.
So how is Russia able to finance its war in Syria?
Igor Sutyagin, a senior research fellow at RUSI, the Royal United Services Institute for Defence and Security Studies, joins Counting the Cost to discuss the money trail.
Denmark slashes benefits for asylum seekers
Denmark's right-wing government has slashed benefits for asylum seekers as it seeks to bring down the number of refugees entering the country.
Under a new set of rules, asylum seekers without children will receive less than $900 a month in benefits, almost half the $1,700 they previously received.
This comes just weeks after Denmark placed advertisements in four Lebanese newspapers announcing tighter regulations and cuts by up to 50 percent for newly arriving refugees.
So far, more than 350,000 Syrians have lodged asylum claims in Europe, and Denmark expects around 20,000 to arrive at its doors this year.
The prospect of a better life in Europe has driven many to make the treacherous journey to Europe amid a conflict which has killed around 250,000 people. 
Marcus Knuth, Denmark's spokesman on integration and immigration for the ruling Liberal Party, joins the programme to explain why his government has taken such a tough measure. Source: Al Jazeera +++ 
Al Jazeera +04 October 2015 18:31:23 GMT+ 
Bassima lives in the Sabra refugee camp in Lebanon.
A Palestinian refugee, she has struggled for the past 22 years to support her family.
But having found work at a Women's Centre and sent her children to college - she is now determined to aid those less fortunate than her.
Along with her best friend Nabila, they assist Syrian refugees arriving at the camp.
But with a new wave of refugees, the camp is changing, funding is being redirected and the already limited resources are being stretched more than ever.








Bassima has been best friends with Nabila for eight years [Al Jazeera]






FILMMAKER'S VIEW
By Reem Haddad
"I feel that I have to help Syrian refugees. I feel that because people helped our families when they came here. We have to stand by the Syrians." - Bassima.
In Sabra and Shatila, the Palestinian refugee camp in Lebanon's capital Beirut, a new wave of refugees is changing the face of the camp.
As Europe struggles to deal with the Syrian refugees attempting the perilous journey to reach their shores, countries that neighbour Syria have been welcoming refugees since the war began in 2011.
Lebanon, Syria's smallest neighbour, is home to an estimated two million Syrians, half of whom are unregistered. They now make up close to a quarter of the population. But this isn’t the first time Lebanon has absorbed people escaping conflict. In 1948 following the formation of the State of Israel, large numbers of Palestinians fled to Lebanon. According to the UN there are close to 450,000 registered Palestinian refugees. The majority of them live in crowded camps plagued by a crumbling infrastructure, poor housing conditions, poverty and unemployment.
Despite living there for over 60 years they hold few rights, they cannot claim citizenship and are barred from working in over 20 professions.
Lebanon has not ratified the UN Convention on refugees and unlike other countries like Jordan and Turkey where Syrians now live, they have not built any official camps to house them. Syrians coming in have to fend for themselves seeking refuge wherever they can find it. Many of them now live in the Palestinian camps where rents are low.
In Sabra and Shatila, the population is estimated to have doubled. As they seek food, work, medical care and education this new wave of refugees is putting a considerable strain on Lebanon, itself a complex and fragile country still burdened by the ghosts of recent conflicts.
We met Bassima and Nabila, two Palestinian refugees, while filming stories for Life on Hold, Al Jazeera's web documentary on Syrian refugees in Lebanon. These two best friends who grew up in Sabra and Shatila were our guides in the camps.
It's not easy to film in the crowded streets and alleyways there, people are often suspicious of camera crews and we had a few run-ins with some angry young men. Many expressed resentment that the focus has shifted away from the plight of Palestinian refugees to the Syrians. From others we heard frustration that journalists and filmmaker's come and go, but that the conditions on the ground and the hardships in the camps persist despite all the media attention.
The ease with which Bassima and Nabila always defused the tension was impressive. The women, who have long been active in community service, are respected. They've known these young men all their lives and have taught or assisted many of their families, so we were allowed to continue.
But what was even more impressive was the kindness and patience with which they dispensed advice and help, especially to the Syrians who are struggling to adapt to life as refugees. Walking in the camps with them is like being with minor celebrities. People approach them with issues and concerns from domestic disputes, to health, and education and they take the time to listen to their stories.
Yet both these women have very little themselves, they live in the crowded buildings where water and electricity cuts are the norm. They struggle to make ends meet and to raise their families in a difficult environment where unemployment and discontent are rife. They are truly inspirational.
Bassima has witnessed many of the atrocities that Sabra and Shatila camp have endured, the War of the Camps and the massacre by the Christian Phalange, yet she remains strong. She told us she feels unbreakable. Through these amazing women, we were allowed a window into the world of the camps that is facing yet another upheaval.








Bassima and Nabila have long been active in the community and are well respected figures amongst the refugees [Al Jazeera]




Source: Al Jazeera +++ 
Al Jazeera +03 October 2015 12:42:31 GMT+ 
As Europe's refugee crisis continues to intensify, EU member states remain divided over how to respond to the growing number of people arriving from war-torn countries like Syria and Afghanistan. 
Hungary's right-wing government has faced international criticism over recent clashes between Hungarian riot police and refugees trying to enter the country from Serbia.





Tear gas and attacking individuals in that manner - that is not my Europe. That is not the European values, and certainly not saying - like the prime minister in Hungary did - that 'some are welcome but not Muslims'. That is not Europe. We need to stand up for the European values. Order on our borders, yes; control, yes; but people who are fleeing for their lives need to get into Europe and they have that right.
Stefan Lofven, Swedish PM





Sweden has been one of the few European countries to take the opposite approach. Swedish immigration officials were deployed to train stations, meeting and greeting arriving refugees. 
Despite the fact that more than 10,000 people have been denied asylum in Sweden, many are still in the country, escaping deportation.
This is creating the picture of an open-door policy, and the numbers seem to back that up. No country in Europe is taking in more immigrants per capita than Sweden, not even Germany.
"It's a moral principle and we are also obliged by international conventions and we stick to that. Every individual has the right to seek asylum in Sweden.... We cannot prevent people from getting a chance to seek asylum if they need it. We are not closing our borders for refugees ... but we have to have control over our borders," says Sweden's prime minister.
But the policy has a downside: Many new arrivals are languishing in temporary housing, beggars and homeless live in the streets, and some neighbourhoods have seen an uptick in violent demonstrations - this is not the picture of Sweden that existed just a few years ago.
At the same time, there is another issue preoccupying the Swedes. Russia's takeover of Crimea has reverberated in the region. Many people here now so worried about the Russians they are advocating giving up Sweden's traditional non-alignment policy and instead joining NATO.
As many changes are sweeping across this part of northern Europe, Sweden's Prime Minister Stefan Lofven talks to Al Jazeera about refugees, immigration policies, and other challenges facing his country and Europe.
You can talk to Al Jazeera too. Join our Twitter conversation as we talk to world leaders and alternative voices shaping our times. You can also share your views and keep up to date with our latest interviews on Facebook.Source: Al Jazeera +++ 
Al Jazeera +01 October 2015 07:06:29 GMT+ 
It has been wondrous to behold the massive outpouring of sympathy towards refugees in Europe. Every "refugees welcome" placard and act of solidarity has restored my faith a little in our human ability to do collective good.
But it strikes me that, as the mainstream has warmed to the refugees and their plight, the right has become more panicky and shrill, triggering the kind of fear and anxiety usually expressed by the defenceless towards ruthless conquerors.
Bedraggled, desperate and unarmed, the stream of refugees flowing into Europe can only be referred to as an army in the loosest, most figurative sense of the word. Yet, across Europe, conservatives have been singing, in chorus, the refrain "Islamic invasion".







// <![CDATA[
RenderGeneralBCVideo(4512436883001,0,0,330,186, "bcvid_4512436883001");brightcove.createExperiences();
// ]]]] >






Hungary's 'militarised strategy' in dealing with refugees





 
"They're not refugees. This is an invasion," said Laszlo Kiss-Rigo, a bishop in southern Hungary, a country which has become a far-right hotbed in recent years and, stuck on a major transit route, has been building a wall to keep the refugees out. 
Calls to man the barricades
What is most remarkable is that Bishop Kiss-Rigo's comments were a rebuke of his spiritual boss, Pope Francis' commendable appeal to European churches to take in refugees.
Much further west, similar calls to man the barricades could also be heard. 
"It's an invasion that threatens our prosperity, our security, our culture and identity," said Dutch far-right firebrand Geert Wilders, who once infamously called for the banning of the Quran.

Also read: One billionaire's dream to build a refugee utopia

When it comes to prosperity, the influx of refugees (equivalent to just 0.37 percent of the EU's population since 2012) poses little to no threat, economists and other experts agree. An analysis by the Brookings Institute reveals that the inflow of refugees actually has a net positive effect on host economies - and the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) agrees.





If the European economy stands to benefit from the influx of refugees, why all the panic?
 





If the European economy stands to benefit from the influx of refugees, why all the panic?
One reason is economic anxiety. Across Europe, job insecurity has risen dramatically while youth unemployment in many countries is perilously high. In addition, the corrosion of the welfare state and severe austerity measures have left millions reeling in shock. 
Rather than attribute Europe's economic ills on the continent's growing welfare state for the wealthy, the corporations exporting (or "outsourcing") jobs for greater profit and financial sector mismanagement, far-right demagogues find it easier to blame the weak and kick those who are already down.
In addition, the periphery countries dealing with the brunt of the crisis are the poorest and least-equipped to do so.
Potential danger
Beyond economics, many Europeans are genuinely concerned about the potential danger to their security posed by refugees. While it seems far-fetched and even preposterous to people like me that those fleeing the combined terror of the Assad regime and ISIL will themselves turn to terrorism, many ordinary Europeans do not possess the luxury of that insight.

Also read: Why Al Jazeera will not say Mediterranean 'migrants'

In addition, there is the slim chance that ISIL will play on these fears and send a handful of terrorists amid the flow of genuine refugees. In such an instance, all it takes is a single act of calculated terror to cause Fortress Europe to pull up the drawbridges it has recently slightly let down.








Migrants and refugees walk towards a registration camp after crossing the Macedonian-Greek border [AFP]





However, fears about security are subordinate to anxieties about culture and identity. Since World War II, Western Europe has witnessed a remarkable demographic transformation in which citizens from former colonies - and from Turkey, in the case of Germany - and their offspring now constitute a significant minority of the population. 
Though many have related to this new multicultural reality as enriching and empowering, others have found it troublesome and threatening, particularly those who feel their culture is superior to those of the immigrants. 
When coupled with the corrosive effects of globalisation and rapid technological development, as well as the rapid demise of religion in many parts of Europe in recent decades, many feel adrift in an uncharted ocean.
Although fanatics capture the headlines and people's imaginations, this death of religion has also been occurring among what Europe identifies as its Muslim minority, which was never defined so monolithically in the past. For example, according to some studies, more than a fifth of "Muslims" in France don't believe in Islam nor practise it.





One reason why anxiety towards Muslims carries an extra punch compared to other groups ... is the centuries-old mutual rivalry between neighbouring Islam and Christendom.
 





Mutual rivalry
One reason why anxiety towards Muslims carries an extra punch compared to other groups, such as Indians and Chinese, is the centuries-old mutual rivalry between neighbouring Islam and Christendom (nowadays, referred to as the "West").
Populists and demagogues have been riding, and fanning, the wave of re-Christianisation and growing Islamophobia by playing the history card relentlessly. 
"When it comes to living together with Muslim communities, we are the only ones who have experience because we had the possibility to go through that experience for 150 years," said Viktor Orban, Hungary's far-right "Viktator", evoking memories of the Ottoman carve-up of the medieval Kingdom of Hungary, which empowered the peasantry but destroyed the ruling class.
This is a far cry from the earlier pronouncements by Orban, who is an atheist who now regularly talks about "Christian values", that "Turkey is not a state at the edge of Europe any more".
What Orban's swinging rhetorical pendulum underlines is that there is no "clash of civilisations", just clashes of interests and convenience.
Moreover, any sensible observer should be able to see clearly that the refugees of today are not the invaders of history. In our interconnected world, people need to conquer their fears and let sensibility and humanity reign.
Khaled Diab is an award-winning Egyptian-Belgian journalist, writer and blogger. He is the author of Intimate Enemies: Living with Israelis and Palestinians in the Holy Land. He blogs at www.chronikler.com.
The views expressed in this article are the author's own and do not necessarily reflect Al Jazeera's editorial policy.Source: Al Jazeera +++ 
Al Jazeera +01 October 2015 10:29:10 GMT+ 
As the world's two superpowers debate ways to end the four-year conflict in Syria, which broke out in March 2011, as popular protests against the rule of President Bashar al-Assad, in the final analysis, according to one Syria specialist, any solution that does not reflect the realities of life inside Syria today and the ecologies of violence that have taken root during the past four years cannot be taken seriously when moving forward.
Al Jazeera asked four Syria experts about the most viable scenarios to end the conflict.

 Randa Selim, Director of the Initiative for Track II Dialogues at the DC-based Middle East Institute and non-resident fellow at the Johns Hopkins University SAIS Foreign Policy Institute. 

The West looks at the Syrian conflict through three lenses: First, the security threat posed by the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL); second, the influx of hundreds of thousands of Syrian refugees into Europe; and third, The high rate of casualties in Syria from the Assad regime's bombing of civilian areas under rebel control, pushing many to migrate to neighbouring Turkey and Lebanon.
Talking with Bashar al-Assad will not help solve any of these problems, and keeping Assad in power will exacerbate them.








Randa Selim 





Evidence abounds that, at the beginning of this crisis, Assad facilitated and manipulated ISIL as one of the tools in his political survival toolbox.
He will not fight ISIL as long as he believes his reign is under threat. Refugees are heading towards Europe because they do not see any hope for a political solution in Syria and know that Assad is not going to voluntarily give up power.
And Syrian refugees in neighbouring countries will not return home as long as their country is in ruins.
The US and Russian approaches to dealing with the Syrian conflict are a study in contrasts.
Time and again, the US president has been reluctant to engage in any military efforts to lay the groundwork for the political solution he constantly trumpets.





Talking with Assad will neither defeat ISIL nor achieve a political solution. Instead, the US, Europe, and their regional allies should talk to his Russian and Iranian sponsors, while increasing military pressure on the ground to deny them and Assad a military victory in Syria.





The United States' failed "train and equip" programme has become the butt of jokes in the Middle East. The White House's reluctance to act decisively in Syria is motivated by a number of factors: Its abhorrence of military interventionism, its misguided assumption that military action in Syria would have jeopardised nuclear negotiations with Iran, and its further misguided assumption that Assad's downfall will inevitably lead to ISIL taking Damascus.
Putin's approach is to do all he can to protect the Assad regime. Russia has vetoed United Nations Security Council resolutions targeting the Syrian government.
In 2013, Russia engineered the chemical weapons deal that prevented Assad's downfall, at a time when the regime was weak, and US air strikes could have brought about the end of the Assad regime.
Now, with the regime again in a weak position, Putin has come to Assad's rescue once again by deploying Russian troops, planes, and anti-aircraft missile systems. 
Putin has invested in Assad's survival, and it is naive to assume that he will be willing to abandon him unless the cost of propping him up dramatically increases.
It is equally unlikely that Russia, Iran and the Assad regime will devote resources to defeating ISIL. With Russian and Iranian help, the regime will focus on holding the areas of Syria still under Assad's control.
It will selectively seek to fight ISIL to shore up the Russian narrative that Assad is the West's best ally against ISIL.
Russia might target certain ISIL units, mostly Chechens, without seeking to change the balance of power in favour of the other Syrian rebel groups.
It is up to the pro-opposition camp - led by Turkey and Jordan, financed by Saudi Arabia, Qatar and the United Arab Emirates, and assisted by the US and European countries - to defeat ISIL, while strengthening the armed-Syrian opposition. Training and equipping of new Syrian rebels has not worked, and will not work.
We must work with the 100,000 Syrian rebels who are fighting both ISIL and the regime. Neighbouring countries like Turkey and Jordan must eventually send ground troops to assist the rebels.
In the interim, there is a need for a regional dialogue platform under the UN umbrella to discuss the principles underpinning a solution for Syria, the architecture of the transitional period and the guarantees that must be provided by the regionals to secure a buy-in from all components of the Syrian society.
Talking with Assad will neither defeat ISIL nor achieve a political solution. Instead, the US, Europe, and their regional allies should talk to his Russian and Iranian sponsors while increasing military pressure on the ground to deny them and Assad a military victory in Syria.






'Putin has invested in Assad's survival, and it is naive to assume that he will be willing to abandon him,' says Selim [AP]




 Alexander Nekrassov, former Kremlin adviser 

Did the meeting between Russian President Vladimir Putin and US President Barack Obama on the fringes of the United Nations 70th General Assembly on Monday help bring us any closer to a resolution of the war in Syria? 
The two sides are still bitterly divided on the issue. Yet, word is that out of the 90-minutes of the meeting, the two leaders spent half of that time discussing Syria.








 Alexander Nekrassov 





That is a significant indication of the importance both attach to the issue. (Ironically, not a word has been said by either the Russian or the US president about the UN's possible role in the peace process in Syria.)
In his briefing to Russian journalists after the meeting, Putin called the talks constructive, businesslike and frank, which, in diplomatic-speak, can range from a shouting match to a cordial agreement to disagree on most points of the discussion.
The interesting bit came when the Russian leader hinted at a possibility of the Russian air force bombing ISIL positions in Syria, on request by Damascus, which tells us that at the summit, Obama did not raise any concerns about the Russian military build-up in Latakia.
An extraordinary possibility is slowly emerging: Russia and the US actually fighting ISIL alongside one another?  After all, the two countries are now in direct contact with each other, and it would help avoid any possible cases of friendly fire. This scenario was unimaginable only a few months ago. 





Assad's fate will continue to be a thorny issue, as well, when it comes to the possible timetable and conditions of his departure.





As it stands, Putin has taken the initiative on Syria, with the West slowly coming to terms with the fact that Assad is the lesser of two evils compared with ISIL, and that he still has some role to play in the war against ISIL.
It's an unpleasant truth, especially for the likes of the US and Britain, but Putin feels that an opportunity has emerged on this front, and he is pressing hard to promote his view that the Syrian government is the only legitimate force against ISIL and should be supported in its battle.
Some have even gone so far as to suggest that Assad's future is Putin's ace card in the game over Ukraine, and he will continue to support Assad until he is able to get some serious concessions over sanctions and Crimea.
Meanwhile, Russia is adding more diplomatic pressure on the US by building a new coalition of nations that includes Russia, Saudi Arabia, Turkey, Egypt, and Iran.
This initiative overshadows the limited build-up of Russian forces in western Syria. If the US does not join this alliance soon, so the thinking in Moscow goes, it will probably be forced to do it at some point later on.
At the moment, the US-led coalition has not really offered much in the way of an efficient working concept.
So what are the prospects for the war in Syria? In the short term, they are not encouraging as the posturing and face-saving exercises are bound to slow down the process of reaching any solution.
Assad's fate will continue to be a thorny issue, as well, when it comes to the possible timetable and conditions of his departure.
The one thing that is probably working in Syria's favour is the weariness of all its neighbours of the conflict and the negative impact it is having on them, including the endless flow of refugees.
So from this perspective at least, the latest Russian diplomatic initiative might stand a chance of success.
In the meantime, things are still looking gloomy.

 Ammar Waqqaf, Syrian political analyst 

The latest Russian military initiative is nothing short of a major reshuffle of the entire card deck in the game for Syria.

Suddenly, while the West was painstakingly building up a certain momentum to lock down on all future








Ammar Waqqaf





development possibilities, the other camp pulled the mother of all tricks: Intervening seriously and according to international law, which the West has simply failed to do.

The United States and its Western allies seem to be trying to salvage whatever they can of their rapidly diminishing influence, but it is expected that they'll come to their senses soon.

Their regional allies, however, seem to be quite intent, and Saudi Arabia has even  threatened military action against the Syrian government. Nonetheless, it is unlikely that the West would back such an action, as it did in Yemen.





The latest Russian military initiative should have a very significant psychological effect. It would tell rebels that victory is not imminent, opposite to what has been the thinking since the very beginning.







On the other hand, for the majority of Syrians, their position vis-a-vis their government has remained the same since the start of the conflict.

Supporting the government in order to fend off perceived dangers has been their best option - and has increasingly become their only one.

In a tell-tale sign, two out of three refugees, who fled the fighting areas in Syria, headed for the government-controlled areas, while the other third went to neighbouring countries.  

Moreover, these Syrians would not easily accept getting rid of Assad for a very simple reason: If this "revolution" managed to achieve anything, then all they'd be doing is to sow the seeds for future generations to relive the same horror whenever this or that regional player saw fit.

The latest Russian military initiative should have a very significant psychological effect. It would tell rebels that victory is not imminent, opposite to what has been the thinking since the very beginning.

This would turn the dynamics of Syrian fighters among the so-called Islamic factions, as they would be forced to rethink the futility of a prolonged fight.

Radical fighters from other countries would, of course, still fight both for ideological reasons and because they have nowhere else to go to, but it won't be the same.

In fact, for the first time since the crisis started, military operations and arming of factions won't be justified by the need to "push Assad to the negotiating table".

Now, the military advantage that the Syrian government would enjoy (out of Russian intervention) should soon push the ever unrealistic opposition figures to that very table, as a political solution suddenly becomes within sight.

 Samer Abboud, Associate Professor of international studies, University of Arcadia 

Speeches at the United Nations by Presidents Barack Obama and Vladimir Putin in late September 2015 put forth radically different and conflicting visions for how to solve the Syrian conflict.
Meetings between the two leaders afterwards only further highlighted the gaps between US and








Samer Abboud [Arcadia University]





Russian thinking on the Syrian conflict, particularly with regards to the future of President Bashar al-Assad and his role in a political transition process.
As the international community debates these competing Russian and US visions for Syria, a third vision is unfolding on the ground that may yet prove to have the most traction and could serve as the basis for a future settlement.





Debates over whether or not Assad should be part of a transition process miss the point – the conflict is well beyond being solved by his removal.





In recent weeks, Iranian and Turkish officials brokered a comprehensive agreement between regime and rebel forces in the northwest of the country that, among other things, provided a no-fly zone, a six-month cessation of hostilities in specific areas, rebel withdrawal from Zabadani along the Lebanese border, and civilian evacuation from two villages under rebel siege.
This agreement comes amid wider efforts by UN envoy Steffan de Mistura to negotiate local freezes throughout other parts of the country to facilitate aid provision and provide civilians relief from lengthy sieges.
And while the local freezes and the Iranian-Turkish agreement have proven extremely difficult to negotiate and easy to break, at the very least, they represent an attempt at addressing the Syrian conflict based on realities on the ground.
And herein lies the fundamental problem with the Russian and US visions for Syria: mainly, that the competing policy visions, which we are led to believe are Syria's only two options moving forward, are completely divorced from the realities inside of Syria.
Debates over whether or not Assad should be part of a transition process miss the point - the conflict is well beyond being solved by his removal. As such, any solution that does not accurately embody and reflect the realities of life inside of Syria today and the ecologies of violence that have taken root cannot be taken seriously moving forward. Unfortunately, no such solution is on offer.
What is needed moving forward are measures - not grand plans - that seek strategic, targeted relief for civilian populations, while reducing armed hostilities and violence in the country.
Whether or not this can eventually lead to a solution to the conflict is unclear, and perhaps even naive, but at the very least, such measures can change the dynamics on the ground such that serious negotiations could be initiated.
What we call the "Syrian conflict" is today really the conglomeration of micro-conflicts for which solutions cannot be found in the halls of the General Assembly.
What is needed today are serious attempts inside of Syria to build the basis for a mediated, negotiated solution that addresses the main drivers and outcomes of the conflict.
This means thinking differently both about how we see the conflict and its solution.
It also means thinking beyond the US' and Russia's plans for Syria.
Source: Al Jazeera +++ 
Al Jazeera +01 October 2015 05:54:23 GMT+ 
More to this story

Germany prints its constitution in Arabic for refugees
Record half-a-million refugees reach Europe this year
US to accept tens of thousands more refugees

Republican presidential front-runner Donald Trump has said he would send back Syrian refugees taken in by the US if he is elected president.
Trump said during a rally in New Hampshire on Wednesday that he was worried the refugees could be disguised members of the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) group.
"I am putting the people on notice that are coming here from Syria as part of this mass migration, that if I win, if I win, they are going back, they are going back. I am telling you, they are going back," Trump said.

His remarks came the same day Russian warplanes began air raids in Syria's centre and north - their first military engagement outside the former Soviet Union since the occupation of Afghanistan in 1979.












"Look, if Russia wants to go in there, [it] would have been nice if we went in as a unified front, to be honest. But if Russia wants to go in there and knock out ISIS [ISIL] and maybe stabilise, this big migration with 200,000 people into the United States ..." Trump later reiterated to CNN.
"If I win, I'm going to say it right now, and I'll say it to you, those 200,000 people - they have to know this and the world will hear it - are going back.
"We're not going to accept 200,000 people that may be ISIS [ISIL]. We have no idea who they are. And I'm telling you now, they may come in through the weakness of [President Barack] Obama," but would return to their homeland if Trump makes it to the White House, he said.

US to accept tens of thousands more refugees

Millions of Syrians have been fleeing a civil war that has killed more than 250,000 people since March 2011.
But Trump questioned why Syrians were fleeing their country instead of staying and fighting.
Secretary of State John Kerry announced earlier this month that the US would significantly increase the number of refugees it takes in over the next two years.
 So far this year, it has taken in about 1,500 Syrian refugees. 
Kerry said the  US will increase  the number of refugees it takes in by 15,000 over each of the next two years, bringing the total to 100,000 in 2017.
The US will accept 85,000 refugees from around the world next year, up from 70,000, he said. Many of them will be Syrians.Source: Agencies +++ 
Al Jazeera +30 September 2015 12:53:07 GMT+ 
Poland will bring in tens of thousands of ethnic Poles living in Kazakhstan, Ukraine and other former Soviet republics, according to its finance minister.
The long-neglected issue was raised recently during a heated debate over the European Union's plan to share 120,000 refugees from the Middle East, Africa, and Asia among its 28 members.
Poland has said it will host 7,000 of them.
Critics of the refugee programme, however, say Poland's first obligation is towards the ethnic Poles whom Soviet leader Josef Stalin expelled by hundreds of thousands from their homes, and to their descendants.
Mateusz Szczurek, Poland's finance minister, said on Tuesday the country's cabinet has put aside funds for the repatriations, while the interior ministry said it would be about $8m in 2016 alone.











The money - for housing, Polish language lessons and professional training - would go to local governments to encourage them to take in the arrivals.
Under the EU refugee programme, funds for people from Syria and Eritrea will come from the bloc.
Past expulsions
Most of the expulsions took place during World War II, when Soviet authorities forcefully sent Poles from areas overtaken by the Red Army to Siberia or the bare steppes of Kazakhstan.
The families were not allowed to return for decades under communism, both in the Soviet Union and Poland, until the 1990s.
Democratic Poland started the ethnic repatriation programme in the late 1990s, but the reluctance of local governments has been a chief obstacle.
So far, about 5,000 ethnic Poles have been brought to Poland from Kazakhstan, Georgia, and Uzbekistan, according to the interior ministry.
Another 180 were evacuated from war-torn eastern Ukraine in February.
But tens of thousands more are waiting. There are at least 34,000 ethnic Poles in Kazakhstan alone, according to estimates.Source: AP +++ 
Al Jazeera +29 September 2015 15:46:35 GMT+ 
The top Google searches coming out of Syria have revealed that Syrians are desperate to flee their war-torn country and many are still planning to seek refuge in Europe.
AJ+ spoke to Google to find out what Syrians are searching for and found that according to search volumes over the past fortnight, people have been searching for their closest hospitals, how to treat burns at home and how to perform mouth-to-mouth resuscitation.
But the most popular search terms were about finding a way to Europe, and more specifically, how to reach Germany.
  
According to AJ+, the top two searches coming out of Syria are "immigration to Germany" and "asylum in Germany".












You probably won’t read this piece about Syria

Syrians are also trying to figure out how to get to Germany, first by sea, with the terms "Greece map" and "sea separating Turkey and Greece" being the next top searches.
They also want to see "maps of Europe in Arabic" and a "map of Germany".
AJ+ also found that they are also trying to determine which route is the best to take by searching the distance between the Turkish cities of "Edirne and Izmir", between "Izmir and Istanbul", then "Turkey and Greece". Then, they want to know the distance on foot between "Macedonia and Serbia".
As Hungary declares a state of emergency and uses force to prevent people from entering its borders, the Google searches reveal that high volumes of Syrians are also looking for "news of Hungary and "Hungary Syrian refugees".Source: Al Jazeera +++ 
Al Jazeera +29 September 2015 13:33:37 GMT+ 
A record number of refugees have crossed the Mediterranean into Europe this year, breaching the half-a-million mark for the past nine months, according to the International Organization for Migration (IOM).
As of Tuesday, the group said 522,124 people had travelled by sea to reach the continent.
About 388,000 have entered via Greece, and more than 175,000 of the total came from Syria - the largest single refugee source as a country.











IOM estimated that 2,892 people have died attempting the crossing. The majority of those deaths were among people seeking to reach Italy via North Africa.
Despite the risks, thousands of refugees still continue to make the dangerous journey.
On Tuesday, the Libyan coastguard said it rescued 346 refugees, including almost 100 women and children, who were crammed onto rubber boats and stranded off the country's coast.

Opinion: The grid of repression

Three boats were intercepted a few kilometres off Garabulli and Ghot el-Rommane, east of Tripoli, coastguard officer Mohamad Jannane, who took part in the operation, said.
Jannane said the refugees, who had been trying to cross the Mediterranean to Europe, were shuttled in a three-hour operation to a naval base in Tripoli before being transferred to reception centres.
"The rescue operation was carried out between 23:00 GMT on Monday and 02:00 GMT on Tuesday morning because our boats are small and they were overloaded," the officer said.
He said that 34 women and four children were among 230 refugees in two of the boats, while the third was carrying 116 people, including 54 women and two children.
Libya has for years been a stepping-stone for refugees, mostly from sub-Saharan Africa but also Syria and other Middle Eastern countries, seeking to travel to Europe.
Straining EU
In an upsurge of attempted crossings this week, the Italian coastguard said it had coordinated the rescue on Monday of 1,151 refugees in 11 operations off the Libyan coast.
Separately, the charity Doctors Without Borders (MSF) said its ship Dignity 1 had saved 373 people, including 62 women and 10 children.
Those refugees were transferred to Italy.







// <![CDATA[
RenderGeneralBCVideo(4509779348001,0,0,330,186, "bcvid_4509779348001");brightcove.createExperiences();
// ]]]] >






Croatia and Serbia fight over handling of refugees





The influx has strained the 28-nation European Union and prompted a rash of border closures. This year's influx has long since passed the previous record of some 219,000 people in 2014.
Meanwhile, Austria warned that it may have to use force to ease any backlog of refugees if Germany decided to no longer let them enter via their shared border, but will continue to work closely with its neighbour to expedite the flow.
Germany has reimposed border controls and curbed rail traffic from Austria in an effort to slow an influx of refugees, thousands of whom reach its territory daily.



By contrast, Austria is largely letting refugees stream onto its soil from Hungary unhindered and is shuttling them towards Germany.
Asked by a reporter what would happen if Germany "seals the border", Interior Minister Johanna Mikl-Leitner said: "Then there will be a massive backlog here in Austria and therefore here we quickly need a European answer."
Germany's suspension of regular traffic on one major rail link with Austria has prompted many refugees to cross the frontier by other means.
Hundreds have been lining up at a crossing near the Austrian city of Salzburg each day.Source: Agencies +++ 
Al Jazeera +29 September 2015 08:35:45 GMT+ 
Growing up in 1980s Athens, there was an annoying, but popular Greek expression loved by aspiring urbane ladies of a certain age and social class that roughly translated as: "The wild have come to chase away the tamed."
Alongside much tut-tutting and shaking of candy-floss hair, it would be brandished at the end of a good gossip to rhetorically expel their object of ire. Of course, no explanation was forthcoming about why the wild shouldn't be chasing away the tame; my impression that this was the natural order of things was only reinforced by my historian parents' cautionary tales of the collapse of foolishly overextended empires.
But, perhaps, for a young, rapidly urbanising country like Greece, anxious to put Ottoman and Nazi occupations, refugee trauma, and domestic bickering behind it to take its place in the "pantheon of the tame" - also known as the European Economic Community (EEC) - such pearls of popular wisdom were necessary parts of the process of social formation.







// <![CDATA[
RenderGeneralBCVideo(4483947531001,0,0,330,186, "bcvid_4483947531001");brightcove.createExperiences();
// ]]]] >






Syrian refugees: A catastrophe in numbers






Emerging factors
Fast forward 25 years, and a host of emerging factors are rapidly brewing a perfect storm. A new type of mostly asymmetrical internal conflict is being generated in many countries at the intersection of economic crises, environmental deterioration, globalisation-enabled amplification, overpopulation, and mismatched resource distribution.
In places such as Egypt, Tunisia, and Syria, it has resulted first in the rolling back of the state, then the ending of a social pact by which allegiance was swapped for stability and social services, and eventually civil strife.
In turn, it has created a refugee emergency that will affect all of us as it ripples out of the Middle East and North Africa region, delivering the "wild" (or simply those more adapted to survival) into the heart of Europe.

Also read: Afghanistan: The other refugee crisis

So is it the turn of the domesticated citizens of a demographically mature, post-religious, secular continent to be chased away?
The age of frivolity
I grew up in the 1980s and '90s in an age of self-absorbed frivolity backgrounded by pre-crisis Greece and an England posing as "Cool Britannia", with near-capacity employment, generous salaries, and easy credit-fuelled conspicuous consumption and upward mobility, and without too much consideration of what it all meant. Britain was establishing itself as a global financial services centre, and Greece was borrowing on the markets like a crack addict.





We called 'Third World' economies 'emergent', even as they were being hollowed out by neoliberal free trade policies.
 





Some will recall these as "the good times" when globalisation created a corridor from "developing" to "First World", delivering cheap goods and below-cost services adjusted for economies of scale. We called "Third World" economies "emergent", even as they were being hollowed out by neoliberal, free trade policies.
The decline did not take long in coming once the 2008 crisis betrayed how over-leveraged the global economic system was, and the narrative of permanent growth was refuted. Quantitative easing introduced fresh credit into the system and softened dislocating shocks, but the rot spread to the EU, which protected its currency by pretending that the emperor has clothes, or that the Greeks would fully repay their debt. 
The refusal to make hard choices and reform an exploitative economic system meant that southern Europe died a silent, austerity-imposed death. 
A generation of Greeks that did little with their expensive foreign educations during the good times were forced to toughen up, as the youngest and best-educated committed to becoming emigre workers and Greece lost a stunning four percent of its population.
Transformational factor
But the millions more eviscerated figures emerging from ruined cities like Syria's Homs, Iraq's Fallujah, Yemen's Saada and Libya's Benghazi, or the semi-permanent refugee camp incubators of despair in Jordan, Turkey, and northern Iraq, will have far greater impact. 





  





Only the youngest, fittest, and leanest have proven desperate enough to remain unfazed by distance, wild seas, and high walls in their quest to march north to a better life, which is why three in four of the arrivals are mature men.

Also read: The West's hidden tribalism

They are both product and agent of a transformational force reshaping Europe and the world, and their role will jolt us - and northern Europeans, in particular - out of a decades-long indifference.








Syrian refugees arrive aboard a dinghy after crossing from Turkey to the island of Lesbos, Greece [AP] 





The conventional wisdom that our present can only mature into a better future is being challenged by Europe's demographic decline, decreased religiosity and the incapacity to effectively respond to the economic crisis. This spreading entropy suggests that Europe's thirst for life is waning.
The refugees arriving from Syria, in their majority - young, educated, and from moderate, urban backgrounds - will transpose the appetite for life of a young, but now-shattered country, to a greying continent and disprove US neoconservatives who held out "Eurabiasation" as a nightmare scenario in the 1990s.
While the majority of entrants into the EU have not been from Syria, it is Syrians who should be actively courted to settle in Europe, because, rather than being civilisationally remote, their lands have been a part of Europe's cultural "near abroad" since cross-Mediterranean trade transformed sleepy Phoenician fishing villages into business hubs 3,500 years ago, and an oasis in the middle of the desert into the glorious city of Palmyra.

Also read: Could Greece become the Libya of Europe?

Despite long years of witnessing foreign extremists and a brutal army reduce their country to rubble, proof that Syrians have largely remained moderate lies in their low representation, relatively, in the ranks of the most extreme jihadi groups.
How ironic, then, that just as those Syrians hungry enough for a new life have put pressure on privileged Western societies, they are themselves an illustration of the meek fleeing before the savage. 
Many of the arrivals to Europe are young men from government-held territories, who, in fleeing Syria to dodge the draft, are indirectly facilitating the expansion of a force that is, perhaps, the very definition of the wild of this world united to drive the tame away: ISIL.
Iason Athanasiadis is a photojournalist who covers the Middle East.
The views expressed in this article are the author's own and do not necessarily reflect Al Jazeera's editorial policy.Source: Al Jazeera +++ 
Al Jazeera +28 September 2015 09:59:06 GMT+ 
New York, United States - US President Barack Obama has warned world leaders that they will not meet new UN anti-poverty targets without tackling corruption and ending discrimination against women, gays and other marginalised groups.
Obama spoke at the launch of the UN's new sustainable development goals (SDGs) on Sunday in a diplomatic meet that has been overshadowed by conflicting Western and Russian approaches to Syria's civil war.
"Development is threatened by bad governance," Obama said in a 28-minute speech in which he criticised unequal societies and discrimination against women, gays, disabled people, ethnic minorities and other groups. 
"In the face of corruption that siphons billions away from schools and hospitals and infrastructure into foreign bank accounts, governments have to embrace transparency and open government and rule of law," he said. 
He spoke on the final day of a three-day meeting on the SDGs - a blueprint of 17 targets to end poverty globally and tackle other problems that each of the UN's 193 members has agreed to work towards, voluntarily, until 2030.











Advocates say the goals are a noble effort to improve the planet. Critics say they are too ambitious and, with an estimated annual price tag as high as $5 trillion, too costly for a global economy that is still recovering from the 2007-08 credit crunch.

RELATED: Eradicating world poverty in 15 years 

Some financial concerns were allayed on Saturday, when Chinese President Xi Jinping announced that Beijing will establish an assistance fund with an initial pledge of $2bn to help developing countries implement the agenda.
China will have committed $12bn by 2030, he said, while unveiling plans to exempt some poor, landlocked and island nations from debt. "China will continue to take a right approach to justice and interests by putting justice before interests," he said.
Talks on Syria
On Monday, Obama is scheduled to co-chair a meeting to bolster UN global peacekeeping operations around the world and to meet with his Russian counterpart, Vladimir Putin, for talks on the crises in Ukraine and Syria.
On Sunday, US Secretary of State John Kerry spoke positively about the talks between Obama and Putin.







// <![CDATA[
RenderGeneralBCVideo(4512886477001,0,0,330,186, "bcvid_4512886477001");brightcove.createExperiences();
// ]]]] >






One Minute Sustainable Development Goals





But behind closed doors, White House and Kremlin officials have disagreed on what the two leaders will discuss and even who initiated the meeting.
"This is the beginning of a genuine effort to see if there is a way to de-conflict, but also to find a way forward that will be effective in keeping a united, secular Syria that can be at peace and stable again without foreign troops present," Kerry told reporters.
Obama and Putin have disagreed over the crisis in Ukraine and the future of Syria, which is mired in a four-year civil war. Obama says Syrian President Bashar al-Assad cannot remain in power, while Putin continues backing his most strategic Middle Eastern ally.
Russia has stepped up military deployments to Syria in recent weeks, reportedly with combat aircraft, tanks and other gear that will bolster Assad's beleaguered forces in their fight against multiple armed groups, including the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL).

RELATED: Syria's brutal civil war to top US-Russia agenda

The Kremlin and the White House share concerns about ISIL, but disagree on their approaches to the group that control swaths of Sunni-majority zones on either side of the Syria-Iraq frontier. 
Putin says Damascus should be included in efforts to fight ISIL. The US rejects Assad and says ISIL can be defeated with US-led air strikes and ground forces from the region, including about 5,400 moderate Syrian rebels who are being trained by the US.
That scheme is floundering; some rebels have surrendered ammunition and six pick-up trucks to the al-Qaeda-affliated Nusra Front. In an interview with US television networks that was released ahead of the meeting, Putin said US support to rebels breaks international rules.
"It turns out that only 60 of these fighters have been properly trained, and as few as four or five people actually carry weapons," Putin said. "The rest of them have deserted with the American weapons to join ISIS," he added, referring to ISIL.
Assad's future
Meanwhile, some US allies are shifting position on Assad's future. German Chancellor Angela Merkel says Assad should be involved in any peace talks that could help stop refugees flowing from Syria to Europe; Britain says he could remain in power during a six-month post-war transition.





American policy on Syria is at a crossroads, not because there is any appetite for a different policy in the White House but because all the existing approaches have collapsed.
Hussein Ibish, Arab Gulf States Institute





Against a backdrop of softening of Western attitudes on Assad, Jonathan Cristol, a scholar at the World Policy Institute think-tank, said he doubted the upcoming talks between Obama and Putin would break the deadlock on Syria.
"US-Russia relations are at their lowest point since the end of the Cold War. It's important that they coordinate, but they will likely only be coordinating their disagreements and I doubt that Obama meeting Putin can realistically change that," Cristol told Al Jazeera.
"Obama won't persuade Putin to withdraw Russia's forces from Syria, nor will Putin change Washington's stance on Syria. Only circumstances will change the US position, and frankly, that is happening."
Hussein Ibish, an analyst at the Washington-based Arab Gulf States Institute think-tank, said Putin has the upper hand in talks.
"American policy on Syria is at a crossroads, not because there is any appetite for a different policy in the White House but because all the existing approaches have collapsed," Ibish told Al Jazeera.
"Having an incoherent policy, or perhaps no policy at all, effectively leaves the US at the mercy of countries like Russia, which has a clear policy designed to effectuate an outcome in Syria - maintaining a dictatorship in as much of the country is possible."
The UN has hosted one of the best-attended gatherings in diplomatic history over recent days, with about 150 heads of state attending, including Obama, Xi, French President Francois Hollande, German Chancellor Angela Merkel, Iranian President Hassan Rouhani and Pope Francis.
Follow James Reinl on Twitter: @jamesreinlSource: Al Jazeera +++ 
Al Jazeera +28 September 2015 08:08:47 GMT+ 
Ayham Ahmad made international headlines when videos of him playing the piano in the Yarmouk refugee camp, home to thousands of Palestinians in Damascus, went viral. Amid shells of homes and piles of rubble, he played for crowds of refugees who joined him in song.
After fighters with the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) stormed the camp, his piano was burned, and what little semblance of life he had was lost.
Ahmad fled Yarmouk with the hope of reaching safety on European shores, writing on his Facebook page: "Dearest Mediterranean, I am Ayham and would like to safely ride your waves. People here just want to go to Europe… They ride in dinghies prone to overturning in seconds… We would like Turkey to open its borders with Greece and let us board overland in safety, away from the boats of death."
Al Jazeera spoke with Ahmad via Skype after he arrived in the Greek island of Lesbos.

VIDEO: The piano man of Yarmouk, and what he left behind

Al Jazeera: How did you start your journey?
Ayham Ahmad: We sailed early morning; we were getting ready at 4am. The trip was quite dreadful - it was quite an experience. I thought the boat would sink. The boat motor was bad, didn't function that well. They changed the motor as we got ready at 4am. We got to Lesbos at 6:10am.
The journey was very rough. The boat was supposed to hold 40, but we had 70 passengers on board. Honestly, I don't think the boat was equipped to carry more than 10 when it came to safety requirements. Trading with human lives is now the trend between Turkey and Greece, and there was no other way to get to Greece, except by sailing the sea - especially if you don't have money. If you do, they get you on a big boat, and then you are on your own.
Al Jazeera: What do you think about the people you left behind in the camp, your family?





I am hoping I can get somewhere better where one day I can play music again. I miss playing the piano, and I hate to be playing music away from the camp, but I will play wherever I can so I can be close to the hearts of the people.
 





Ahmad: Leaving Yarmouk camp was a tragic experience. My house came under fire, so I had to flee with my family. The camp is no longer a place where we can play music. I am hoping I can get somewhere better where one day I can play music again. I miss playing the piano, and I hate to be playing music away from the camp, but I will play wherever I can so I can be close to the hearts of the people.
[Later, I plan to head out] on a big boat that will have around 1,000 people. It will take us six hours to get to Athens. I will stay there for one day, and then I will take the ground route that everyone else is taking, the Syrian refugees and everyone else. I see that there are so many Iraqis, Afghans too. The least were the Syrians, even though the crisis in Syria is the worst.
Al Jazeera: What are you planning to do to highlight the struggle of those who are still under siege?
Ahmad: I am nothing but a pianist. There is nothing I can do to help my people on the political level. I wish I could, but the best I can do is to play for the sake of hope, for the sake of spreading peace all over the world. 
I hope I can get to Germany so I can better serve my country there, to serve my people - the Palestinian and the Syrian people - more through music.
Al Jazeera: When do you hope to play again?
Ahmad: I want to pursue a better academic education when it comes to my music. I want to keep pushing the message of love and peace, just like I did when I was at the camp.
I think about my parents, my two boys who are left behind in Lebanon. I hope I can get them out too. I told you I managed to get out and I paid so much, and the journey was disastrous, very rough. Palestinians are not supposed to leave, so it was more expensive for me, and I knew I couldn't bring them with me on this trip. It was too risky. They also cannot go back to Yarmouk; it is unbearable there, no one can survive the camp after three years of siege and famine.
People are still dying out of malnutrition and hunger. Fifteen days ago, an elderly man just died. The whole case is a global one. I am 27-years-old, a young parent. I had to leave so I can get my kids out so they can have a better future. I want to teach them music one day.Source: Al Jazeera +++ 
Al Jazeera +27 September 2015 17:54:26 GMT+ 
Somewhere along the line, [ISIL] has been converted into a glamorous thing for a minority of people around the world and that's got to change. That's got to change with political action. You're not going to change minds just by bombing
Jeremy Corbyn,  Leader of the UK's Labour Party 





At 66 years of age, Jeremy Corbyn isn't exactly the youngest politician in Britain, but his election as leader of the Labour Party and head of the opposition has energised UK politics.
As he campaigned for his party leadership, thousands of people turned up to hear him across the country.
Massive lines of supporters queuing up to listen to the veteran left-wing politician became a symbol of the new movement he has built.
But Corbyn isn't without critics, his opponents bill him as an activist whose policies are impossible to implement. He believes in re-nationalising Britain's rails, is a fervant campaigner against nuclear weapons and wants to introduce new taxes on big businesses and the country's rich.
Corbyn has also stirred controversy with his perceived anti-monarchy beliefs and his past support for Irish resistance groups.
On this week's Talk to Al Jazeera, he explains what he would do to solve the current refugee crisis facing Europe, his view on ending the war in Syria, and the truth behind his relationship with Palestinian Resistance group Hamas.
You can talk to Al Jazeera too. Join our Twitter conversation as we talk to world leaders and alternative voices shaping our times. You can also share your views and keep up to date with our latest interviews on  Facebook. Source: Al Jazeera +++ 
Al Jazeera +27 September 2015 06:52:45 GMT+ 
Kobane, Syria and Erbil, Iraq - Adla, 65, sits in front of her partially demolished house on the southern side of the northern Syrian town of Kobane.
She is one of the nearly 100,000 people who local authorities say have returned to Kobane, out of nearly half a million who fled the town and its surrounding area amid a major assault by the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) in September 2014.
Last January, ISIL forces were expelled from Kobane by a coalition of local Kurdish forces, assisted by a United States-led alliance, Iraqi Kurds and Syrian rebels. But ISIL fighters infiltrated Kobane again in June, massacring more than 200 people, mostly civilians.
"We are still afraid that they might return in some way," Adla told Al Jazeera. "The situation is not totally reliable ... We have become miserable here."
Like many others in Kobane, Adla has paid heavily for defending this largely destroyed town, losing a son and grandson in the process. Apart from a dire need for basic services such as drinking water, electricity and healthcare, Kobane residents now live in fear of their uncertain future in a country ravaged by conflict.








Adla, a Kobane resident who lost a son and grandson in the fight to defend Kobane, sits in front of her partly demolished home [Akhtin Asaad/Al Jazeera]







When ISIL forces launched a major assault on Kobane one year ago, almost all civilians in the besieged town and its countryside left for neighbouring Turkey. When ISIL was expelled, many gradually returned, only to find many parts of their town razed to the ground.

With a bloody civil war raging between multiple groups in Syria today, along with a lack of funds and outside aid, rebuilding the border town has not been a priority.





There is nothing in here, no electricity, no water, nothing. It's ruins all around us here, and none of our neighbours are back.
Jamil, 55, resident of Kobane





Jamil, 55, used to be a construction worker before ISIL's attack on Kobane last year. But Jamil, who lost a son while they fought to defend the town, is now part of the local Kurdish forces protecting Kobane. He lives with his family of seven in this border town.
"There is nothing in here, no electricity, no water, nothing," Jamil told Al Jazeera. "It's ruins all around us here, and none of our neighbours are back."
Local officials say they are determined to rebuild Kobane, but given the extent of the destruction and the limited resources at their disposal, they cannot do it alone, they say.
"Given that Kobane became the symbol of resistance against ISIL, we expected the international community to assist greatly with its reconstruction, as 70 percent of the town was destroyed as a result of the fighting and bombardments by the international coalition," Idris Naasan, a spokesperson for the committee in charge of rebuilding Kobane, told Al Jazeera.
"But that has not been the case, unfortunately. We've received help only from international organisations for issues such as demining and medical assistance."

RELATED: Kobane: The beginning of the end for ISIL

According to Nassan, the local administration has started building around 1,300 apartment units for those whose homes were completely razed. Around 3,200 homes were completely or partially destroyed as a result of the fighting, he said, noting the town still relies largely on donations from Kurds in the region, particularly Turkey, and the diaspora. Rebuilding Kobane to pre-war levels will require up to $1.5bn, he said.
Adnan Mustafa, a physician and head of the local Amal Hospital in Kobane, said there is a dire need for advanced medical equipment for cardiac care and CT scanning, as well as medicine for heart disease and diabetes. Many locals have consequently sought treatment in neighbouring Turkey.
"We've suffered a lot, but have now reached a level to be able to operate again," Mustafa told Al Jazeera. "There was a point last winter when we had to expel the patients here because we did not have fuel to warm the hospital."
Local authorities have also been struggling to accommodate students for the new school year. Of the town's 25 schools, almost all were demolished. Of those, authorities have hastily repaired seven. Kobane is still largely in ruins, with rubble strewn all over.








Kobane children play with bullet casings left behind after the five-month battle between ISIL and various Kurdish and Syrian rebel forces [Akhtin Asaad/Al Jazeera]







Along with Jazira in Hasakah province and Afrin in Aleppo, Kobane is one of the three Kurdish self-ruled cantons in northern Syria. After the Kurdish People's Protection Units (YPG) and allied Syrian rebel forces seized the town of Tal Abyad from ISIL in June, Kobane and Jazira became connected, with a freer flow of goods to Kobane.

Turkey opens its border with Kobane to local residents twice a week, during which time Kobane refugees in Turkey can return to their town, local authorities say. But those already back in Kobane cannot re-enter Turkey, except for serious medical treatment.
Faced with the destruction of their hometown, many Kobane residents are now embarking on the perilous sea voyage to Europe. In early September, three members of a Kobane family drowned in the Aegean sea.







// <![CDATA[
RenderGeneralBCVideo(4463120295001,0,0,330,186, "bcvid_4463120295001");brightcove.createExperiences();
// ]]]] >






Alan Kurdi's journey home





"Our people want to leave for Europe and are ready to even die in the seas," Radwan, a 25-year-old Kobane resident, told Al Jazeera. "That's what is important to the majority of them."
Of all the challenges they currently face, residents say security is the most serious. After ISIL's recent infiltration into Kobane, the local administration dug a large trench on the eastern side of the town on the road to Tal Abyad.
Kobane authorities have also set up a force, which they are calling the Intrinsic Defence Force, comprised of civilians who have agreed to serve as guards for their neighbourhoods.
But Radwan complained that some locals have not taken their role in protecting their town seriously, only agreeing to do guard shifts if paid by the local administration.
"In our street, only three of us go to Mishtenur hill to take guarding shifts: me, my father and another man," he said.
Despite all the challenges, Dijla, 22, said she was determined to remain in Kobane.
"Our homes are destroyed, but it's fine," she said. "I'm not afraid. My brothers are now taking guard shifts."








 Many houses were damaged or destroyed during the fighting between ISIL and local Kurdish forces [Akhtin Asaad/Al Jazeera]




Source: Al Jazeera +++ 
Al Jazeera +26 September 2015 12:40:14 GMT+ 
They are the worst crimes on earth - crimes against humanity, war crimes, and atrocities involving mass execution, rape, murder and torture.
On this week’s  Talk to Al Jazeera  our guest is the United Nations' most senior human rights official: the man who must document and protest about these and other abuses around the world.
Zeid Ra'ad al-Hussein became the high commissioner for human rights last year and he is the first Muslim to hold this post.





We cannot go back to a world of ethnically-pure states where somehow eugenics has a sort of role in this. We are far from that. The world has suffered enough from those sorts of rather reptilian policies. I say reptilian because they’re rather primitive. We need a much more enlightened approach and I believe that Chancellor Merkel’s position is one of great leadership and now the rest of Europe must also show a likewise generosity in keeping with the feelings of the people of Europe, which are not all xenophobic and anti-Muslim.
Zeid Ra'ad al-Hussein, United Nations high commissioner for human rights





In our interview on the UN's 70th anniversary, Al Jazeera's James Bays talks to Hussein about the state of global human rights.
We focus on the war in Syria, the use of barrel bombs, the crimes of ISIL and the resulting refugee crisis in Europe. Hussein, who has been at the UN for 20 years, also discusses the Balkan wars.
He talks about how the world woke up to the plight of Syrians with the heart-rending image of toddler Alan Kurdi, who drowned off the Turkish coast in early September.
Hussein says there's a "mean-spiritedness" among politicians, particularly in Eastern Europe.
He is highly critical of the Hungarian government's treatment of refugees. Police there have used tear gas and water cannon on refugees and the Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orban said his country does not welcome Muslims.  
"I find it utterly appalling, really, the reactions and the policies of the Hungarian government - a great surprise to me.
"Next year we'll be celebrating the 60th anniversary of the Hungarian uprising and one has to recall that in the first nine weeks, 164,000 Hungarians fled Hungary to the neighbouring states, principally Austria and Yugoslavia; eventually 200,000 Hungarians were settled in 37 countries, and how can it be, 60 years later that the political leadership in Hungary seems to have forgotten this?"
Hungary's stance is "inexcusable", says Hussein, "especially when contrasting this with the genuine generosity with many ordinary Hungarians who understand that these people are suffering people, by and large refugees, but even if they were not, if they were migrants, the conditions which led to departure doesn't mean that in any way they don't have human rights as well - the right to a dignified reception, the rights to counsel, the rights to health".
Zeid Ra'ad al-Hussein has a unique perspective. He was formerly the ambassador to the UN for Jordan, a country directly caught up in the turmoil, and he served as president of the UN Security Council.
Neither Iraq nor Syria still have a monarchy, but if they did, High Commissioner Zeid - also known as Prince Zeid - would be one of those in direct line to inherit the throne. We speak to Hussein about all this and more, on Talk to Al Jazeera.
  You can talk to Al Jazeera too. Join our Twitter conversation as we talk to world leaders and alternative voices shaping our times. You can also share your views and keep up to date with our latest interviews on    Facebook   .   Source: Al Jazeera +++ 
Al Jazeera +25 September 2015 19:19:52 GMT+ 
In this episode of UpFront, Mehdi Hasan speaks to US Deputy National Security Advisor Ben Rhodes. He also refutes the stereotype of the "greedy Greeks" and challenges the Hungarian prime minister's spokesman on the country's policies toward refugees.  The Headliner: US Deputy National Security Adviser Ben Rhodes
Six years ago at the age of 32, Ben Rhodes went from US President Barack Obama's speechwriter to one of his most trusted advisers. Rhodes is seen as Obama’s right-hand man on foreign affairs and has helped formulate US policy on the Middle East, Pakistan and Cuba. 
In this week's Headliner, Mehdi Hasan presses Rhodes on the US government's use of drones, its policy on Syria and the bombing of ISIL.
Reality Check: Are the Greeks all that lazy?
"No! No more billions for greedy Greeks," was the headline printed inside Europe’s best-selling daily newspaper, BILD, earlier this year.
The caricature of the greedy, lazy and profligate Greeks is often spewed out by German politicians and pundits, but the numbers don’t add up. In this Reality Check, Hasan debunks the myth that Greeks are to blame for their economic woes, and instead points to the real issue: austerity. The Arena: Hungary fences out refugees
Mehdi Hasan challenges the prime minister’s spokesman on the country’s immigration policy.
Refugees trekking hundreds of kilometres in search of safety and a better life were greeted with tear gas by Hungarian police at the Serbian border, resulting in widespread condemnation.
The country's leader, Prime Minister Viktor Orban continues to take a controversial stand against refugees. He has voiced opposition to a recent EU plan to resettle 120,000 asylum seekers across Europe and the government built a fence along the Serbian border.
In this week's Arena, Hasan challenges the prime minister’s spokesman, Zoltan Kovacs, on the country's strict immigration policy.
Follow UpFront on Twitter @AJUpFront and Facebook.Source: Al Jazeera +++ 
Al Jazeera +25 September 2015 20:16:47 GMT+ 
About a third of refugees arriving in Germany who claim to be from Syria are actually not from that country, a spokesman for the German interior ministry has said."Thirty percent of those asylum-seekers who claim to be Syrian are not Syrians according to this estimate," Tobias Plate said at a government news conference on Friday, adding that there were, however, no precise statistics yet available.
On Thursday, Chancellor Angela Merkel and Germany's 16 state governors agreed on measures designed to streamline the country's handling of the refugee arrivals.
New measures included declaring three Balkan countries "safe" states of origin and cutting some cash payments to newcomers.

RELATED: Desperate journeys

Merkel said that Albania, Kosovo and Montenegro will be declared safe countries as part of efforts to reduce the stream of people from those countries who have arrived.
The agreement calls for "pocket money" paid to people at initial reception centres to be switched to benefits in kind.
The federal government is pledging to shoulder many of the financial risks of the influx, relieving state and municipal authorities.The UN agency for refugees also welcomed the announcement that critically needed new funding would be made available for refugees in first countries of asylum.
“The relocation plan will not put an end to the problem, but it hopefully will be the beginning of a solution,” said Antonio Guterres, UN High Commissioner for Refugees. “It is an important step toward stabilising the crisis, but much more needs to be done. The plan can only work if, at entry points in Europe, robust facilities are created to receive, assist, register and screen people.








 According to UNHCR’s assessment, 1 in 10 Syrian refugees are in need of resettlement - a total of 400,000 Syrian refugees [EPA]




Source: Al Jazeera and agencies +++ 
Al Jazeera +25 September 2015 13:57:07 GMT+ 
Demonstrators have attacked a bus load of refugees arriving at a reception centre in southern Finland with stones and fireworks. 







// <![CDATA[
RenderGeneralBCVideo(4506594142001, 0, 0, 330, 186, "bcvid_4506594142001");
                            brightcove.createExperiences();
// ]]]] >






Xenophobia in Hungary grows as influx of refugees continues






Between 30 and 40 protesters, one wearing a white robe like those worn by the white supremacist group the Ku Klux Klan in the US, waved the Finnish flag and shouted abuse at the bus in the southern town of Lahti late on Thursday.
Some demonstrators also hurled stones and let off fireworks at the vehicle carrying 40 refugees, including several young children, Finnish television YLE said.
"The protesters were young people from Lahti... At this point we have no indication that they would be somehow organised," chief inspector Martti Hirvonen told the local Finnish outlet STT, according to the AFP news agency.
Meanwhile, a petrol bomb was thrown at another reception centre in Kouvola, also in southern Finland, police said. No one was known to be hurt in the incidents, the Reuters news agency reported.
"The Finnish government strongly condemns last night's racist protests against asylum seekers who had entered the country," the government said in a statement.
"Violence or the threat of violence is always to be condemned."

 RELATED: Refugees explain why they fled Syria 

Prime Minister Juha Sipila this month offered to take in refugees at his home, a move that attracted international attention but also criticism in Finland.
 'Christmas gift' 
"Sipila's noble-minded gesture was like a Christmas gift for human traffickers and refugees. The news about open doors in Finland have sent many young men on a journey towards the promised land," Mika Niikko, a deputy from anti-immigrant party The Finns, said last week in a statement.







// <![CDATA[
RenderGeneralBCVideo(4499386785001, 0, 0, 330, 186, "bcvid_4499386785001");
                            brightcove.createExperiences();
// ]]]] >






Iraqis falling victim to scammers offering visa to Europe





So far this year more than 13,000 refugees have come to Finland, compared to just 3,600 in the whole of last year. 
In recent days, about 500 refugees per day have crossed the Finnish land border in Tornio, near the Arctic Circle, after a long journey through Sweden.
The Finnish government has launched random border checks and identity checks around the country amid the influx of people.
Finland was the only EU state to abstain from this week's vote about relocating refugees across the member countries.
It accepted its 2 percent share of 120,000 refugees in question but said it was opposed to a mandatory quota system.








Refugees sleep after Thursday night's attack by a group of far-right activists [AP]




Source: Agencies +++ 
Al Jazeera +25 September 2015 11:49:55 GMT+ 
This is a historical moment for Europe. That is the thought that creeps into my mind every time I try to describe just what I have been documenting for the past few months.  As a photographer who has dedicated more than eight years to documenting the lives of refugees across the continent and beyond, I never foresaw that we could reach a point of such cruelty, never imagined that EU member states would be building fences to protect their territories from helpless, desperate refugees.   History is repeating itself as the Greek islands once again welcome refugees arriving via Turkey.
Over the past few months, the majority of the refugees arriving on the Greek islands are middle class Syrians, some of them highly educated.
I see them reaching Greek shores and kissing the ground. Unaware of what comes next in a crisis ridden country with no functional reception system, most of them believe they have reached their Promised Land.
As soon as the refugee-filled rubber dinghies reach the shoreline locals arrive - some are there to offer help, others to get the engines left behind from the boats. NGOs, solidarity groups and dozens of volunteers also descend - although they don't always know just what to do to help.  Then there is the media. Dozens of photographers, journalists and cameramen are awaiting to capture the moment.
 Having just survived an enormously dangerous sea crossing, the refugees must immediately make one of the most difficult of choices: where to go next. The absence of a common European asylum system forces them to seek out those EU countries with the strongest asylum systems, where they also have a greater chance of integrating. Thus, after reaching Greece, most embark on a new journey north. 
Along the Greece-Macedonia border, the situation is even more chaotic. Many refugees remain stranded in between the two countries, their passage subject to daily negotiation. It was here that, at the end of August, police officers attacked refugees as they held their babies in their arms.
I have documented violence, despair and helplessness with my lens more times than I can possibly remember. But I have honestly never seen anything like that before: terrified and beleaguered people trying to cross the borders, children screaming and crying and families being separated between the two countries. Hell by the border.
 The Balkan passages are particularly dangerous.
 In April 2015, I was on the Greek island of Kos, when I witnessed the arrival of a boat full of Syrians. Among them, there was a man called Almouthena, an English language teacher from the city of Deir Ez Zour.
 "Freedom, freedom," he screamed as he stepped off the boat and onto the shore. He had left Syria after four years of daily clashes in his region. I followed him from Kos to the north and the borders with Macedonia and then I met him again a month later in a hostel in Beograd, Serbia. The same day we both bought a bus ticket to Hungary. Together with a group of 20, I followed Almouthena and after several hours we reached Kanja, a city a few kilometres from the Hungarian border.  It was already dark and the rain had just stopped. We got off the bus and started walking, trying to find our way with the help of the GPS on his phone. We soon left the city and found ourselves on a dark and lonely road. And then we were stopped by the Serbian police.
Two policemen stepped out of a van and asked us to follow them to the police station. They told us we could continue without a problem if we paid them 50 euros (around $56) each.  I felt scared, and tried to hide my camera as I searched for the money in my pocket.
Almouthena left the group, went to a policeman and explained that they had escaped the war in Syria and didn't have enough money to give them. 
The group made a move to head back in the direction of the city from which we had come. And then I heard it, in the dead silence of the night: a gun being loaded. I turned back to see a policeman holding the weapon to the head of a young Syrian.   We all stopped. The policemen took the 200 euros (about $224) that some of the Syrians managed to scrape together, got into the van and disappeared. 
I will never forget that moment in my life. Or the look in the eyes of that young Syrian as he stared into the barrel of a Serbian policeman's gun - there, somewhere along those much talked about European borders.

Photogallery










Syrian children sit in front of the abandoned hotel Captain Elias - Kos, Greece, August 2015 [Giorgos Moutafis]














Refugees pray during a funeral ceremony for an unnamed Syrian refugee in Mytilene's cemetery - Lesvos, Greece, August 2015 [Giorgos Moutafis]














A refugee prays after arriving on a dinghy on Lambi beach on the Greek island of Kos - Kos, Greece, August 2015 [Giorgos Moutafis]














A refugee boy sits on the Greek side of the border beside Macedonian special forces who are guarding the border with Greece near the village of Idomeni - Idomeni, Greece, August 2015 [Giorgos Moutafis] 














A refugee buries an unnamed Syrian refugee during a funeral ceremony in Mytilene's cemetery - Lesvos, Greece, August 2015 [Giorgos Moutafis] 














A path used by refugees who arrive on Lambi beach on the Greek island of Kos – Kos, Greece, August 2015 [Giorgos Moutafis]














Refugees dry their clothes on a tree on Psalidi beach on the Greek island of Kos – Kos, Greece, August 2015 [Giorgos Moutafis] 














A man from Pakistan sleeps outside Captain Elias, an abandoned hotel used by the Greek authorities as an unofficial reception centre on the Greek island of Kos – Kos, Greece, August 2015 [Giorgos Moutafis] 














A Syrian child moments after his arrival in a dinghy on Psalidi beach on the Greek island of Kos – Kos, Greece, August 2015 [Giorgos Moutafis] 














A refugee prays moments after he arrived in a dinghy on Psalidi beach on the Greek island of Kos – Kos, Greece, August 2015 [Giorgos Moutafis] 














A Syrian refugee walks towards Greece's border with Macedonia, near the village of Idomeni – Idomeni, Greece, August 2015 [Giorgos Moutafis] 














Men from Pakistan wait on the railway tracks at the Greece-Macedonia border, near the village of Idomeni – Idomeni, Greece, August 2015 [Giorgos Moutafis]














Syrian refugees wait at the border to be allowed to cross from Greece to Macedonia – Idomeni, Greece, August 2015 [Giorgos Moutafis] 














A refugee carries his daughter as he and others make their way to the Greece-Macedonia border – Idomeni, Greece, August 2015 [Giorgos Moutafis] 




Source: Al Jazeera +++ 
Al Jazeera +24 September 2015 04:55:44 GMT+ 
European Union leaders have pledged at least $1.1bn to UN agencies to help refugees in the Middle East and agreed on closer cooperation to stem the flow of refugee into Europe at a summit described as less tense than feared after weeks of feuding.
Chairman Donald Tusk said the emergency meeting, which ended early on Thursday after seven hours of talks in Brussels, was "really excellent, for sure much better than we expected".
Tusk said he had heard "very substantial and energetic" exchanges between the Austrian and Hungarian leaders, whose common border was among those affected by refugees this summer, but not the mutual recrimination that has threatened to tear apart the bloc's cherished passport-free Schengen zone.





  





"Today's meeting and this atmosphere are a very positive sign," said European Council President Tusk, a former prime minister of Poland.
"It's quite a symbolic moment for me as it's clear we have stopped this risky blame game."   German Chancellor Angela Merkel, criticised by some eastern neighbours for what they saw as actions that have fuelled the influx of people trying to reach Germany, voiced satisfaction: "We know that the problem is not solved with the decision taken. But we have taken one of many necessary steps.
"I got the feeling that we want to tackle this task together."
 'Spirit of solidarity' 
Held at short notice after governments fell out badly over a scheme to share out responsibilities for asylum-seekers around the EU, the summit carried political rather than legal weight.
A joint statement read: "We can only manage this challenge by working together in a spirit of solidarity and responsibility."
Proposals on Wednesday included deploying more security personnel to tighten European border controls, donating at least $1.1bn to international aid agencies to help refugees in camps near conflict zones and boosting support for Lebanon, Turkey and Jordan to help them cope with the millions fleeing the war in Syria.
Tusk had earlier urged leaders gathering for the summit to stop  clashing over a deal  to share out 120,000 refugees and take urgent action to secure the bloc's borders in the face of "millions" of refugees.
"The conflicts in the Middle East, especially in Syria and Iraq, will not end anytime soon," he said.
"This means today we're talking about millions of potential refugees trying to reach Europe, not thousands."

 Related: EU leaders to gather for emergency refugee summit 
On Tuesday, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Hungary and Romania voted against a plan adopted to relocate 120,000 asylum-seekers to other member states over the next two years to ease the strain on Italy and Greece, which are on the front line of the crisis.
European officials said the vote was binding on all countries, including those that voted against it.
Slovak Prime Minister Robert Fico said his country will try to block the deal in an EU court. "We won't implement this decision because we think it can't work," Fico said.
Around half a million people have fled to Europe so far this year in search of sanctuary or jobs. As numbers swell, nations have tightened border security.
Hungary has put up a razor-wire fence along its border with Serbia and is close to completing a similar fence separating it from fellow EU member Croatia.
Hungary's Prime Minister Viktor Orban said the EU should come to Greece's aid in protecting the bloc's most porous border.
"If the Greeks are not able to defend their own borders, we should ask kindly, because Greece is a sovereign country, to let other countries of the European Union defend the Greek borders," he said.
Croatia has closed its border with Serbia to all but food transports in an attempt to halt the flow of refugees.Source: Agencies +++ 
Al Jazeera +24 September 2015 10:58:01 GMT+ 
German Chancellor Angela Merkel has said that President Bashar al-Assad should be involved in any Syrian peace talks amid pressure from the rising number of refugees from Syria.
Merkel made the comment on Thursday after a European Union summit on the asylum seeker crisis.
"We have to speak with many actors; this includes Assad, but others as well," Merkel said. "Not only with the United States of America, Russia, but with important regional partners, Iran, and Sunni countries such as Saudi Arabia."
The comments by the leader of Europe's biggest political and economic power come amid increasing signs that Western powers who were once insistent on Assad's departure may be softening their positions in a bid to end the war.
US Secretary of State John Kerry said on Saturday that although Assad must step down, that need not immediately be upon reaching a settlement to end the country's civil war.
British Foreign Secretary Philip Hammond has made similar comments.
US-Russia talks
Russia and the US launched military talks on the Syrian conflict last week as Moscow increased its build-up of forces in the war-torn country.











But French President Francois Hollande, whose country is set to launch air strikes against Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) group, insisted on Thursday that there could be no place for Assad.
"There can be no transition without his departure," Hollande said after the summit. "The future of Syria will not pass through Bashar Assad."
Merkel, Hammond, Hollande and the other EU leaders issued a statement after the Brussels summit calling for a new push for peace.
"As regards Syria, we call for a renewed UN-led international effort to bring an end to the war that has caused so much suffering and forced an estimated 12 million people to leave their homes," the summit statement said.Source: AFP +++ 
Al Jazeera +23 September 2015 10:55:00 GMT+ 
European Union leaders are set to gather for an emergency summit on the refugee crisis, a day after ministers forced through a controversial deal to relocate 120,000 refugees in a major blow to unity within the bloc.
The leaders will gather on Wednesday evening in Brussels to try to adopt a unified approach to the crisis that has seen 477,906 people stream into Europe from the Middle East, Africa and Asia, according to estimates by the UN refugee agency. 
Interior ministers briskly voted through the deal on Tuesday, under which EU countries must take a share of new arrivals from overstretched frontline states, like Greece and Italy.
But in a rare step, it was passed by a majority vote instead of unanimously, with fierce opposition from Eastern European states.
'Emergency situation'
Hungary, the Czech Republic, Romania and Slovakia all voted against the plan, while Finland abstained, straining regional ties as Europe wrestles with its biggest migration crisis since World War II.
Slovak Prime Minister Robert Fico said on Wednesday that his country will go to court to challenge the quotas for distributing asylum-seekers.
"We will go in two directions: first one, we will file a charge at the court in Luxembourg... secondly, we will not implement the (decision) of the interior ministers," Fico told reporters.
Luxembourg's Foreign Minister Jean Asselborn, whose country holds the rotating presidency of the EU, said the plan was forced through despite opposition because it was an "emergency situation".
"If we had not done this, Europe would have been even more divided," he told a press conference.
With the relocation vote out of the way, Wednesday's emergency EU summit will focus on strengthening the bloc's external borders, as well as giving extra funding to Turkey, Jordan, Lebanon and UN agencies.
But there may be trouble ahead as Greece will likely face pressure to accept outside help in managing its borders - renewing sovereignty concerns in Athens just months after it was forced to accept a huge eurozone bailout.
Europe is under increasing pressure over its handling of the influx of hundreds of thousand of refugees this year, many of them fleeing conflict and repression in Syria, Afghanistan, and Eritrea.
More than 2,500 people, mainly Afghan refugees, arrived on the Greek island of Lesbos on Wednesday morning in the space of three hours, a witness told Reuters news agency.
About 40 rubber dinghies each carrying 60 to 70 people arrived in the rain on one beach on the island, which was covered in life jackets and rubber tubes. Some were suffered hypothermia.
The EU's new relocation plans were outlined after pictures of a drowned Syrian refugee toddler lying on a Turkish beach sparked global outrage.
But the proposal has opened fresh rifts in a bloc already reeling from the Greek debt crisis.

 RELATED: UN: Strategy needed to treat refugees with dignity 

Hungary and its eastern partners oppose the plan because they say Brussels has no right to make them take in thousands of people, and to do so amounts to a violation of their national sovereignty.
"Very soon, we will find that the emperor is naked. Common-sense has lost today!" Czech Interior Minister Milan Chovanec tweeted after the vote.
In Bratislava, Slovakian Prime Minister Robert Fico said he was prepared to break the EU's rules rather than accept the proposal.
"I would rather go to an infringement than to accept this diktat," he said, quoted by Slovakia's leading SME daily.
Ahead of Wednesday's meeting, US President Barack Obama pressed European nations to take their "fair share" of refugees.











The statement, which came after a phone call with German Chancellor Angela Merkel Tuesday, is likely to be seen as a warning to those who opposed the deal.
But his call will be diluted by accusations that Washington itself has not done enough to address the crisis, despite being the leading humanitarian donor to the region.
Schengen worries
With millions of Syrians forced into camps across the Middle East, tens of thousands crossing Europe on foot and hundreds washing up dead on beaches, the US has promised to take in only 10,000 as refugees next year - a figure dwarfed by the up to one million Syrian refugees Germany is expecting to take in this year alone.
The crisis has raised fears that the EU's cherished Schengen passport-free zone could collapse as countries close their borders to stem the flow of refugees, many of whom are heading for Germany.
Britain, which has exercised its right to opt out of the relocation plan, on Tuesday confirmed the arrival of the first tranche of 20,000 refugees it is taking in over five years from refugee camps in Turkey, Jordan and Lebanon.Source: Agencies +++ 
Al Jazeera +22 September 2015 13:24:23 GMT+ 
Piraeus, Greece - Mohammad Saadalden set off for Germany from his war-torn neighbourhood in Damascus with a group of friends and relatives on September 11.
An accountant, Saadalden, 23, arrived in Greece on a diesel-chugging ferry on Saturday, alongside thousands of others seeking refuge from the war in Syria and other conflict-ridden countries, such as Afghanistan and Iraq. 
 Just to get this far, he paid nearly $600 to smugglers to help him dodge heat-sensitive cameras, burly border police, and razor-wire fencing the border with Turkey. 
He slept rough, and, like many others, Saadalden risked a perilous crossing with nearly 60 scared people crammed together on a rubber dinghy in the Mediterranean - a desperate journey that has killed nearly 3,000 people so far this year, according to the United Nations. 








Mohammad Saadalden [Simon Marks/Al Jazeera]





 Unlike the hundreds of thousands of refugees from Syria who have passports, Saadalden is Palestinian and so, only holds a bright-blue booklet that states he is a Palestinian refugee living in Syria. 
 "The only place where we can go is Palestine - and we can't even go there," he said in recognition of the fact his homeland has yet to be granted statehood. 
 His sojourn feels like history repeating itself, he told Al Jazeera. His grandfather fled Palestine in 1948 during the first Arab-Israeli war and ended up never going back. 
"[He] thought he would be in Syria for just one week or a couple of days, and then he would go back. In the end, he waited one year, then two years. Then he stayed forever," Saadalden said.

 RELATED: Refugees at Croatia - Serbia border 

As countries in Europe tighten their borders, access to the continent through  Hungary  has essentially been blocked and routes through Serbia and Slovenia are also being denied. People like Saadalden are increasingly unsure of where to go.
EU interior ministers are holding talks in Brussels on Tuesday on how to relocate 120,000 refugees across Europe. Discussions take place ahead of an emergency summit by European leaders on Wednesday.
Eastern European countries are vehemently opposing quotas that would force them to accept refugees.
The breakdown of cohesion in Europe - and particularly among the Balkan states - has driven thousands into Croatia and pushed the  UN on Friday to warn that time is "running out for Europe to resolve the current refugee crisis". Rights workers say the lack of common strategy in the region has exacerbated the situation.
 The crisis has further demonstrated deep divisions inside the EU on a key issue at a time when right-wing parties in countries such as France appear to be on the rise. 
In Greece, migrants are registered on the islands before being abandoned and left to their own devices. The only help many are given is from Vodafone telecom agents, who are out in force at the port in Piraeus to sell SIM cards and phone credit to desperate customers.








Vodafone vendors soliciting customers among the refugees [Simon Marks/Al Jazeera]





 "The EU must indeed demonstrate its founding values by recognising the humanity and dignity of migrant persons by providing a united and effective response to their plea for protection and assistance," said Daisy   Schmitt, programme officer for migrant rights at the International Federation for Human Rights in Geneva. 
 "Even if the European Council of October finds a humane solution to the European migration policy crisis, it will be late, and from what we have heard ... it is not going in the right direction."   "The EU must dismiss once and for all the piecemeal approach that has characterised its intervention so far and adopt a common strategy," Schmitt added. 

 RELATED: Left-wing Syriza party wins Greek snap polls 

Also stepping off the ferry at the port in Piraeus was Ahmed, a friend of Saadalden, who declined to give his surname fearing Syrian government reprisals against his family members still in Damascus.
He fled the Syrian capital after a bomb exploded outside his home two weeks ago, wounding several people.











"Dying in Syria is not a solution," Ahmed said shortly after arriving in Piraeus. "I have friends in Germany. I have friends in Sweden and Holland. We Syrians go everywhere."
 Ahmed said he wants to go to Sweden because he heard the government there processes asylum requests quicker than elsewhere. He insisted refugees will not just sit back and merely accept state handouts if provided the opportunity to settle in Europe. 
 He has a wide, friendly smile and serious cuts on his arms and hands from climbing through razor wire on the border with Turkey. 
Refugees leaving Syria and arriving in Greece express a mixture of relief after having left their war-stricken countries and apprehensions towards the uncertainty that lies ahead.
Despite efforts by the EU border agency, Frontex, to deploy screening and debriefing experts, as well as interpreters on the Greek islands, it's impossible to find anyone who knows what to do upon entering the country, even after being registered.

 RELATED: Syrian refugees: A catastrophe in numbers 

Meanwhile, fears are growing that the situation could get worse. Some observers say the window of opportunity is narrowing to cross the sea from Turkey into Greece with the weather changing. Millions of refugees living in camps in Jordan, Lebanon, and Turkey could suddenly decide to head towards Europe in the coming weeks.
"They might start leaving in even greater numbers and start arriving in Greece," said a seasoned EU diplomat in Athens, who spoke on the condition of anonymity.







// <![CDATA[
RenderGeneralBCVideo(4497942045001, 0, 0, 330, 186, "bcvid_4497942045001"); brightcove.createExperiences();
// ]]]] >





 Slovenia takes organised approach to welcoming refugees 





He noted that as border closures spread south towards countries such as Bulgaria, Croatia and Macedonia, the crisis in Greece could escalate.
 "Everything will be bottlenecked in Greece" if Europe does not arrive at a solution soon, the diplomat warned. 
 Greece, which is undergoing an economic recession and has limited resources, is currently at a dead end on working out how to deal with the crisis. 
Central squares in the capital are already overcome with refugees, and black market bus journeys have popped up in Athens, channelling those entering the country northwards at exorbitant prices. 
Saadalden and his friends each paid 60 euros ($67) on Saturday to a man working in a print shop, who walked 200 metres down the street with them before darting into a hookah bar, where tickets were issued for them to travel to Thessaloniki, 500km north of Athens.
 Samir Asadi, a teacher and another member of the group, complained about the extortionate travel price. 
 "If you want to go quickly, you've got to pay. They abuse us even when we're down," Asadi said. "I hope we'll have enough money for the rest of the journey."Source: Al Jazeera +++ 
Al Jazeera +21 September 2015 11:32:18 GMT+ 
Madrid, Spain -  For much of his adult life, the Somali man has only known struggle. From the moment he left his war-torn homeland to his eventual arrival in Spain, he has had to fight for his very existence, seldom finding peace in a long and tortuous journey that began back in 2002.
 Sitting under the warm sun of Puerta del Sol in central Madrid, he looks older than his 33 years, his steady gaze revealing nothing of the deep mental scars that lie within after leaving his home in southern Somalia 13 years ago to flee from al-Shabab fighters.
The Spanish capital has been his home since 2012, but while it provides sanctuary from a violent past, Madrid has become a city where dreams of success have turned to despair.








A Somali refugee reflects on life in Madrid [Alasdair Soussi/Al Jazeera]






"I'm living in one of Europe's countries, but I don't have a job, and I have very little help," said the Somali, who asked to remain anonymous, fearing publicity would negatively affect opportunities in Spain.

"You can feel the pressure of living and what you want in life - your dreams, your ambitions - here in Spain, is so very hard [to achieve]."
  An arduous journey
 The Somali man told Al Jazeera that on his long route to Europe, he first arrived in Kenya, then in South Africa, and then in Libya. 
 In Libya, he was captured by people smugglers who extorted $800 from him. After they let him go, he was arrested by Libyan police and thrown in jail.  After a wretched three months, he was released, whereupon he tried and failed to get to Italy.
 In 2011, he spied a chance to finally reach Europe by boat, travelling from Morocco to Spain. 
 Along with more than 40 other refugees, he headed for the Spanish coast, but the flimsy boat began to leak and sank. About 15 people drowned, but he was one of the lucky survivors. After many hours of treading water, a Spanish vessel arrived and took them to safety. 
 Once on the mainland, he made a failed attempt to seek asylum in the Netherlands, but eventually, he settled in Madrid after he was granted asylum in Spain, along with a five-year residency permit. 

 RELATED: Why Al Jazeera will not say Mediterranean 'migrants' 

Today, Europe is attempting to deal with a refugee crisis of a breathtaking scale. The Spanish government has come under pressure to play a role befitting of one of the EU's largest economies.
 Spanish Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy, after initially saying Spain would limit itself to an earlier commitment to receive nearly 3,000 refugees, this month caved in to pressure to accept an additional14,931 refugees.





Safety's a priority for everybody in the world - but if you have safety but cannot manage to survive, then it's another kind of worry.
Somali refugee in Madrid





 Rajoy had said Spain's high unemployment rate - at 22.4 percent, one of the highest in the EU bloc - prevented it from absorbing more refugees. 
 But as opposition leaders lined up to call on the government to open its doors wider and a large banner declaring "Refugees Welcome" in English was unfurled on Madrid's city hall earlier in September, the Rajoy said the country would accept more people under the European Commission's proposed new quota system. 
 A further 17,000 arrivals, falling outside of this plan, and mostly from Syria, are also anticipated by the Spanish government.  Yet, activists and NGOs in Spain are calling on the government to do more - not least when it comes to caring for the refugees already there.
 Germany, which is expecting to receive about one million refugees  this year, has quickly gained a good reputation among fleeing populations for its long-term care and support. 
In Spain, however, many refugees discover there are limits to their host country's generosity. 
"Refugees in Spain only have six months of protection by the government," Ussama Jandali - a human rights activist with a Madrid-based NGO that provides humanitarian aid to Syrians trapped in their country - told Al Jazeera.
"During this time, refugees receive only 50 euros ($56.5) each month - which is not enough to cover costs - and they are given Spanish lessons, which are insufficient. Most want to leave Spain and go to Germany or Sweden where they feel they will have a better chance," Jandali said.

 RELATED: Germany: 800,000 refugees - and then what? 

One Syrian woman living in Spain has often considered leaving. Also asking to remain anonymous because of her situation, she fled Syria in 2013 when her neighbourhood in Damascus was besieged by fighting. After witnessing the gruesome sights of bodies being eaten by dogs, the 35-year-old, along with her parents and two sisters, decided to leave.
Spain was an obvious destination because another one of the daughters was married to a Spanish man and was living in the country. Yet, after the term of care by the Spanish authorities expired, the woman and her family were left to fend for themselves and forced to borrow money wherever they could.
Today, she has found work in Madrid teaching English to Spanish children. She told Al Jazeera that while she has reconciled herself to never living in her home country again, she often struggles with the idea of a future in her adopted country.
She had worked for the United Nations in Syria before the war began."I am now 35 years old, and it's very difficult to start again in another place," she said.







// <![CDATA[
RenderGeneralBCVideo(4490908959001,0,0,330,186, "bcvid_4490908959001");brightcove.createExperiences();
// ]]]] >





 The Facebook page of a people smuggler





 "We were thinking about moving to Germany, but the thought of learning another language and getting used to another culture is very hard. If I were alone, maybe I would think about moving - but when you have a family, it becomes very difficult - even for my mother," she said. 
The Somali refugee said he has great sympathy for the current flow of people arriving from places such as Syria and attempting to make a life for themselves in Europe. 
Yet, bereft of government support and currently living in a shelter provided by a Madrid-based NGO, he knows that dreams of a better life are not always found on Europe's streets.  "Safety's a priority for everybody in the world - but if you have safety but cannot manage to survive, then it's another kind of worry," he said.
One day, he said, he hopes to stop taking on temporary work unloading trucks and become a successful businessman. 
"I'm safe here - but my life's not happy."     Follow Alasdair Soussi on Twitter:  @AlasdairSoussi  Source: Al Jazeera +++ 
Al Jazeera +21 September 2015 06:15:16 GMT+ 
The United States will increase the number of refugees it takes in by 15,000 over each of the next two years, bringing the total to 100,000 in 2017, John Kerry, the US secretary of state, has said.
The US will accept 85,000 refugees from around the world next year, up from 70,000, Kerry said at a news conference on Sunday with Frank-Walter Steinmeier, the German foreign minister, after they discussed the mass migration of Syrian refugees fleeing the civil war.
Many, though not all, of the additional refugees would be Syrian, American officials have said. Others would come from strife-torn areas of Africa.







// <![CDATA[
RenderGeneralBCVideo(4469452713001,0,0,330,186, "bcvid_4469452713001");brightcove.createExperiences();
// ]]]] >






Al Jazeera World: The mother refugees







OPINION: The grid of repression

The White House had previously announced it intended to take in another 10,000 Syrian refugees over the next year.
Kerry did not say how many of the additional refugees would be from Syria but said that the US was ready to help.
"In consultation with Congress, we will continue to explore ways to increase those figures while maintaining robust security," Kerry told a news conference after meeting Steinmeier.
"The need is enormous, but we are determined to answer the call."

Opinion: The ticking time bomb of Syrian refugees

The announcement came amid warnings by US Republicans that the administration could open the door to potential "terrorists".
Congressman Bob Goodlatte and Senator Chuck Grassley, Republicans who head the judiciary committees in the US Senate and House of Representatives, said in a statement the proposal lacked "a concrete and foolproof plan to ensure that terrorists won't be able to enter the country".








'The need is enormous, but we are determined to answer the call' [Reuters]
















Kerry also announced he will hold talks on the sidelines of the UN General Assembly in New York this week on ways to restart negotiations on a political solution to end Syria's war.
"We have agreed on certain formats and processes by which we should try and proceed," he said, adding that he would meet with his Russian and Iranian counterparts Sergei Lavrov and Mohammad Javad Zarif to discuss the situation in Syria.
"This will be a very timely meeting in New York and will give us tremendous opportunity to be able to work together and find some ways forward."
The announcement also comes ahead of a September 23 emergency summit meeting of European Union leaders to address the refugee crisis.
- Reuters and APSource: Agencies +++ 
Al Jazeera +20 September 2015 11:58:01 GMT+ 
A batch of 75 rebels newly trained by US and coalition forces in Turkey to fight the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) group have entered northern Syria, according to a monitoring group.
The rebels had entered Syria in a convoy of a dozen cars with light weapons and ammunition, under air cover from the US-led coalition that has been carrying out strikes against ISIL in Syria and Iraq, the UK-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights said on Sunday.











"Seventy-five new fighters trained in a camp near the Turkish capital entered Aleppo province between Friday night and Saturday morning," Rami Abdel Rahman, director of the Syrian Observatory, told Al Jazeera.

 RELATED: US-trained Syrian fighters refusing to fight 

He said the rebels crossed through the Bab al-Salama border point, the main gateway for fighters and supplies heading into Aleppo province.
That supply route has been increasingly targeted by ISIL fighters seeking to cut off support to rival rebels.
Abdel Rahman said the rebels had deployed to support two US-backed units, with most assigned to Division 30 - the main unit for US-trained fighters - and others to a group called Suqur al-Jabal (Falcons of the Mountain).








Aleppo province has been the scene of fierce fighting for months between government forces and opposition groups [EPA]





Before the fresh batch, the US-led train-and-equip programme had only managed to vet and train about 60 rebels to fight ISIL.
The $500m programme run out of Turkey has been fraught with problems, with more than a dozen of those already deployed with Division 30 either killed or detained by the Nusra Front.
The Nusra Front is still holding Nedim Hassan, the commander of the rebels who were detained in late July.
Some of the rebels have since been released and have returned to Turkey. 







// <![CDATA[
RenderGeneralBCVideo(4496721191001,0,0,330,186, "bcvid_4496721191001");brightcove.createExperiences();
// ]]]] >






Syrian refugees go hungry as food aid stops





The Syrian Observatory also said pro-government forces and opposition fighters had agreed to begin a ceasefire from midday on Sunday in three battleground districts.
The truce covers the two remaining villages in Idlib province in the northwest still in government hands and the opposition fighters' last stronghold near the Lebanese border, the town of Zabadani.
"Fighters stopped military operations early this morning, but the official ceasefire will begin at noon [9am GMT]," Abdel Rahman said.
The developments came a day after John Kerry, the US secretary of state, said that Syrian President Bashar al-Assad must step down, but not necessarily immediately, upon reaching a settlement to end the country's civil war.
Speaking after talks in London with British Foreign Secretary Philip Hammond on Saturday, Kerry said he was prepared to negotiate to achieve a solution but asked whether Assad was.
"For the last year and a half we have said that Assad has to go but how long, what the modality is ... it doesn't have to be on day one or month one or whatever," Kerry said.
"There's a process by which all the parties have to come together and reach an understanding of how this can be achieved."








 




Source: Al Jazeera and agencies +++ 
Al Jazeera +19 September 2015 11:32:23 GMT+ 
Hungarian authorities have seized a train bringing refugees into the country from Croatia, disarming 40 police onboard and detaining the driver after more than 4,000 refugees arrived across their border, the head of the Hungarian disaster unit has said.
Gyorgy Bakondi said on Friday that the Croatian train that brought the refugees to Magyarboly came without any prior notice, like the rest of the new arrivals coming on other trains and buses.
Hungary registered and disarmed the 40 police who escorted the train, he said, according to a video posted on M1 state television's website.
Zoltan Kovacs, government spokesperson, said the incident was "a very serious border violation".

In Depth: Opening the doors to thousands of Syrians

"A very serious border incident has happened because a train arrived in Magyarboly, which had more than a thousand onboard, without any warning and was accompanied by 40 Croatian policemen into Hungarian territory without any prior notice and permit, which is a very serious border violation and there are suspicions of crimes."
"An investigation is under way into this. The driver of the train has been arrested, and my Hungarian colleagues have taken action in relation to the 40 Croatian policemen."
However, Croatian police said none of its officers escorting the train had been disarmed or arrested.
"There was no disarming or arrests. It is not true. There was an agreement about the escort between the police officers from the two sides in advance," police spokeswoman Jelena Bikic told Reuters news agency.
The police said that 36 officers returned to Croatia in the evening.
 Borders closed 
Earlier on Friday, Croatia had given warning that it will close all border crossings in a bid to bar refugees from entering after about 13,000 crossed into the country over the last three days.
The Balkan nation has already closed seven out of eight of its border crossings with Serbia.
Croatia has also blocked refugees - most of whom had fled conflict in Syria and Iraq - from leaving for Slovenia en route to western European countries, such as Germany, leaving many of them stranded along the border.







// <![CDATA[
RenderGeneralBCVideo(4490908959001,0,0,330,186, "bcvid_4490908959001");brightcove.createExperiences();
// ]]]] >






The Facebook page of a people smuggler





"Up until now, we have registered 13,000 migrants on Croatian territory," Ranko Ostojic, the Croatian interior minister, said on Friday.
"This figure means that our capacities to take in more are saturated."
Serbian officials, fearing that the closures would confine too many refugees inside their country, protested against Croatia's move.
Aleksandar Vulin, Serbia's social affairs minister, said Serbia will take Croatia to international courts if the border crossings remain closed, arguing that it should have been prepared for the influx. "We will not pay the price of someone else's incapability," Vulin said. "I am sorry to see that Croatian humanity and solidarity lasted just two days."
However, despite the border closures, many continued entering Croatia through cornfields.
Women carrying children and people in wheelchairs were among the thousands rushing in the heat in hopes of finding refuge.
Source: Agencies +++ 
Al Jazeera +18 September 2015 15:19:25 GMT+ 
Croatia has given warnings that it will close all border crossings in a bid to bar refugees from entering after about 13,000 crossed into the country over the last three days.
The Balkans nation has already closed seven out of eight of its border crossings with Serbia.
Croatia has also blocked refugees - most of whom had fled conflict in Syria and Iraq - from leaving for Slovenia en route to western European countries such as Germany, leaving many of them stranded along the border.
"Up to now we have registered 13,000 migrants on Croatian territory," Ranko Ostojic, Croatian interior minister, said on Friday.
"This figure means that our capacities to take in more are saturated."








These refugees brought by train from Tovarnik to Zagreb wait to be taken to a local fairground, now a makeshift refugee camp [Mohammed Jamjoom / Al Jazeera]






PHOTOS: Refugees caught between hope and harsh laws in Europe

Serbian officials, fearing that the closures would confine too many refugees inside their country, protested against Croatia's move.
Aleksandar Vulin, Serbia's social affairs minister, said Serbia will take Croatia to international court if the international border crossings remain closed, arguing that it should have been prepared for the influx.







// <![CDATA[
RenderGeneralBCVideo(4490908959001,0,0,330,186, "bcvid_4490908959001");brightcove.createExperiences();
// ]]]] >






The Facebook page of a human smuggler





"We will not pay the price of someone else's incapability," Vulin said. "I am sorry to see that Croatian humanity and solidarity lasted just two days."
However, despite the border closures, many continued entering Croatia through cornfields. Women carrying children and people in wheelchairs were among the thousands rushing in the heat in hopes of finding refuge.
One of the more desperate situations was unfolding in the eastern Croatian town of Beli Manastir, near the border with Hungary. Refugees slept on streets, on train tracks, and at a local petrol station.
Meanwhile, Zoran Milanovic, the country's prime minister, said that Croatia's resources were limited.
"We will not and cannot keep [refugees] in Croatia, and no one will make us do that," he said.








Refugee children board a bus in Zagreb [Mohammed Jamjoom / A Jazeera]





Slovenia, the gateway to countries like Germany and Austria, has also moved to prevent refugees from entering the country by suspending all rail traffic between itself and Croatia.

PHOTOS: Refugees, caught between hope and despair, cross into Macedonia

The move came after Slovenian authorities detained 150 refugees who crossed the border from Croatia on Thursday evening.
Police intercepted the refugees just over the border in Dobova and are now urging Croatia to take them back.
Slovenian authorities also blocked 100 refugees from trying to cross the main border crossing of Obrezje.
The influx of refugees into Croatia came after Hungary shut its border, erected a barbed-wire fence, and took other tough measures to stop the refugees from using it as a gateway into Western Europe. 
Ban Ki-moon, the UN chief, on Thursday expressed shock at the treatment of refugees by Hungarian police.
Source: Al Jazeera And Agencies +++ 
Al Jazeera +18 September 2015 13:52:05 GMT+ 
Al Jazeera +17 September 2015 11:34:15 GMT+ 
Correction Sept. 18, 2015: This article originally stated that Wasim Abdo fled military conscription. He did not.Erbil, Iraq - In recent months, European countries have been struggling to deal with the arrival of hundreds of thousands of refugees, many from Syria.
All Kurdish political parties in Syria, though, are calling on their brethren not to leave.
Some Kurdish regions of Syria have enjoyed relative stability compared to the rest of the country. The main Kurdish armed group in Syria, the People's Protection Units (YPG), has controlled most of the country's Kurdish-majority areas following the government forces' withdrawal in July 2012.
 Many Syrian Kurds, however, have left their homes due to the violence. In August 2013, thousands of people from Hasakah province fled to Iraq's Kurdistan region. There are now almost 250,000 registered refugees from Syria in northern Iraq, according to data from the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR).





  





In October 2014, 400,000 refugees from the Kurdish-majority city of Kobane fled to Turkey, after the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) group besieged the city and slaughtered hundreds of its residents. 

RELATED: Syrian refugees: A catastrophe in numbers 

This year, many Syrian Kurds have tried to travel to Europe, and several have drowned in the attempt. Recently, civilians from Efrin, a Kurdish enclave near Aleppo, fled following clashes this summer between the YPG and the al-Nusra Front (Jabhat al-Nusra), a rebel group fighting against the regime of President Bashar al-Assad.
Few figures are available on the number of refugees from Erfin since the the phenomenon is quite recent.





They ban all the Kurds from Efrin to cross the border into Turkey. They just allow the Arabs to cross into Turkey through Efrin.
Wasim Abdo, 28, a Kurd living in Turkey





In an attempt to put an end to the exodus of refugees from the city, the local Kurdish administration has recently banned Kurds from leaving Efrin without permission, fearing there will be no one left to fight.
Local administration officials expressed concern about major demographic changes in the area, given the number of displaced Arabs from Aleppo, and Kurdish efflux to Turkey. 
"They ban all the Kurds from Efrin to cross the border into Turkey. They just allow the Arabs to cross into Turkey through Efrin," said Wasim Abdo, 28, a Kurd who left Efrin a year ago before the ban was imposed and now lives in Turkey. 
The Democratic Union Party (PYD), which is affiliated with the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) in Turkey, has established three local administrations in Efrin, Kobane, and Hasakah province, which are protected by YPG forces. 
But the administration's struggle to provide jobs and services to the local population, and the mass migration, has led to disagreements between the PYD and the rival Kurdish National Council (KNC).
In the beginning of September, the KNC organised protests in several Kurdish cities in Hasakah province against migration, following the death of three-year-old Alan Kurdi and his family members during an attempt to cross the sea between Turkey and Greece. When asked why the KNC organised protests following Kurdi's death, Zara Salih, a UK representative of one







// <![CDATA[
RenderGeneralBCVideo(4389439133001,0,0,330,186, "bcvid_4389439133001");brightcove.createExperiences();
// ]]]] >






Special Series (Compass) - The Invisible Railroad for Syrian Refugees





of the parties in the KNC, told Al Jazeera that the Kurdish parties in Syria are worried about demographic changes as a result of migration.  Salih blamed ISIL, the PYD, and the Syrian government for the phenomenon. "ISIL's attacks and the danger of attacks against Kurds, and the PYD's policy and rules such as the recruitment of young people to fight with them and put pressure on them, is not very different from the Baath regime," Salih argued.  He was referring to laws adopted by the PYD administrations in Hasakah and Efrin requiring young men to serve in Kurdish armed groups for six months.

OPINION: We are missing the point about Syrian refugees

These laws have spurred men like 23-year-old Alan Deriki to flee his home city of Derik for Iraqi Kurdistan. "I did not want to join the YPG, but they forced me to join," said Deriki. He added that cities in the Kurdish areas of Syria "are empty, without young people".
Kamiran Sadoun, 35, lives in Erbil and said his family members from Derik are trying to send their sons outside of Syria now, fearing military service. 
 "A lot of people that do not support the YPG do not want to join their military service," he told Al Jazeera in Erbil. "People are really afraid now."   However, Abdulselam Mohammed, who works for the PYD administration in Hasakah province, denies that people are fleeing military service. He claimed that 90 percent of those who left the province departed three years ago for Iraq, before conscription began.  Meanwhile, some Syrian Kurds critical of the PYD's policies also criticise the KNC for calling on people not to leave. "It's a farce. Most of the KNC members and their families and their children live in Europe, and outside of Syria. And now they are asking Syrian Kurds not to leave," said Abdo, 28. "It's a shame," he said. 

INTERACTIVE: Life on hold

Gharib Hesso, a PYD representative in Iraqi Kurdistan, told Al Jazeera that it is understandable that Syrians are leaving, given the current conditions.







// <![CDATA[
RenderGeneralBCVideo(4479611768001,0,0,330,186, "bcvid_4479611768001");brightcove.createExperiences();
// ]]]] >






Spinning the refugee crisis - The Listening Post (Full)





Nevertheless, he said "propaganda" spread on social media "encourages people to leave and say that Europe opened its doors … But the safest area in Syria is Rojava [Kurdish area of Syria]. A lot of Arabs come to Rojava because of safety and security there".
"In Rojava, people can continue to work and live their daily lives; the people are not starving," he said.  The PYD official called on Europe to send Syrian Kurds help instead. "They can send us aid or assistance. We are living under an embargo and war," said Hesso.Source: Aljazeera +++ 
Al Jazeera +17 September 2015 11:28:29 GMT+ 
Frankfurt, Germany - An unprecedented number of refugees have been welcomed into Germany in recent months with as many as one million expected to arrive by the end of the year.
Despite being hailed globally for its "willkommenskultur" - or culture of welcoming people - there have been media reports of attacks on asylum centres and demonstrations calling for new arrivals to "go home". 
With 50,000 people crossing the border in just one week, some analysts say Germany is starting to feel the pressure, despite a public outpouring of support for refugees.
Al Jazeera went to the streets of the multicultural German city of Frankfurt to find out what people are saying about the refugee crisis - and if they think their government has done the right thing. 



Florian Gerigk, charity worker











Florian Gerigk [Barbara McCarthy/Al Jazeera]





 Florian Gerigk works for a charity on the streets of Frankfurt. He says huge support networks have been created across the country, and people have been overwhelmingly supportive.
 "I've also met people from Syria and they are lovely people looking for employment. There is a misconception that they just want to sponge off the state, but that's not true.
 A lot of them are well-trained and have excellent qualifications, and they will do jobs the Germans won't do.
 Our population is declining so we need more people in our workforce. I still think the government is acting too slowly. People are not being housed in long-term accommodation quickly enough." 



Mehdi Hasan from Bangladesh, business administration student











Mehdi Hasan [Barbara McCarthy/Al Jazeera]





 Mehdi Hasan arrived from Bangladesh three years ago to study business administration. He doesn't know how long he'll stay in Germany but says there are plenty of jobs in his field.
 "I came here in 2012 and I didn't know anyone. I had no apartment, no German, nothing. I really wanted to live in Germany because I had heard good things. I want to complete my bachelor's degree and then see what happens.
 I was at the train station last weekend and thought the reception the asylum seekers got was heart-warming. Germany is the land of opportunity."



Rosalin Watson, newcomer from Nigeria











Rosalin Watson [Barbara McCarthy/Al Jazeera]





 Rosalin Watson has been living in Germany for six months. 
"I am originally from Nigeria, but I left because Boko Haram are too powerful there now. I didn't feel safe any more. It's very sad.
"I came here with my Mexican boyfriend who has been living in Germany for the past 13 years. I found a job quite easily - in the airport behind me.
"It's great and I love how Germans are friendly to foreigners and very helpful. It's a good country to live in so I don't blame all the people who want to come here. They are doing the same thing I did." 



Mizanur Mietoo, student consultant











Mizanur Mietoo [Barbara McCarthy/Al Jazeera]





 Mizanur Mietoo has been in Germany for 24 years. 
"I know what it's like to come here from a foreign country and start a new life. I had a long journey too. I was lucky enough to marry a German woman, but getting a visa was still really hard. 
"That said, Germany is a great place. It's great how Germany is letting so many people in. I work as a consultant with foreign students from Afghanistan, Pakistan, and Bangladesh so I want to play my part too and help the people who are coming into the country as best I can. 
"It's easy to work here. Everything is okay."  



Franz Burgers from the Netherlands











Franz Burgers [Barbara McCarthy/Al Jazeera]





 Franz Burgers is a Dutch native who has spent considerable time in Germany. 
"People just have to do what the government wants. It's not like we have a choice. I think the Germans are welcoming because they still feel guilty about World War II, even though it was a long ago. 
"The German government has been a lot more accommodating than the Dutch government.
"I don't understand why countries in the Gulf states like Dubai and Saudi Arabia didn't take people in... The Germans can only do so much. Everyone wants to come to Germany, and there will be problems down the line." 



Anja Schildknecht, media professional











Anja Schildknecht [Barbara McCarthy/Al Jazeera]





 Anja Schildknecht works for a German TV station and lives in Munich. She says despite the media coverage, the city is not overrun with people.
 "There have been lots of people arriving on trains to much applause and good will, but I worry that the novelty will wear off. 
"To those who are worried about refugees taking their jobs I can only say this - if you are afraid that someone who doesn't know the language, the customs, in most cases doesn't have any money and doesn't know their way round will steal your job, then you probably weren't doing a good job in the first place." 



Andreas Stegemen, Frankfurt native











Andreas Stegemen [Barbara McCarthy/Al Jazeera]





Andreas Stegemen lives and works in Frankfurt. He says Germany is well-equipped to deal with the influx of refugees.
 "We live in a comfort zone. We have jobs and a high quality of life. Of course people want to come here and they are more than welcome. 
"The people who are fleeing war zones are on the road for days or weeks. 
"There are people in Germany who don't want to accommodate refugees, but they are very much in the minority." 



Martin Sykora from Southern Germany











Martin Sykora [Barbara McCarthy/Al Jazeera]





Martin Sykora is from Baden Württemberg in southern Germany, but lives in Frankfurt. 
"Besides a small minority of disgusting people setting asylum centres alight, no one is panicking. The refugees need our help, they need food and drink and psychological support.
"If we want to call ourselves human beings, then we have to help these people.
"I think the smaller towns may have more difficulty adapting to their new neighbours because they have different customs, but we have to adapt. Ultimately they just want the same thing we do - happiness."



Pilar Carvajal from Galicia, Spain











Pilar Carvajal [Barbara McCarthy/Al Jazeera]





Pilar Carvajal is originally from Spain, but is currently living in Frankfurt. 
"This is such a colourful city, it's wonderful. The media is making such a big deal about the refugee crisis now, but it's been going on for months.
"We have our own issues here. There is a big homelessness crisis and they are saying - why not provide accommodation for us? 
"Of course it's sad that people have to live on the streets, but they would live on the street regardless. I don't know how people will feel once there are a million extra people in Germany, but now there are very few problems."Source: Al Jazeera +++ 
Al Jazeera +16 September 2015 05:58:19 GMT+ 
In 1919, a British agent in Kabul complained in a letter to the Raj that the Afghan monarch "has always shown much kindness to the Germans and Austrians and has frequently entertained them and visited them".
He was referring to over 120 German and Austrian prisoners of war who had fled camps in Russia and taken refuge in Afghanistan during World War I. Afghanistan took them in regardless of the fact that, at the time, its foreign relations were under British control.
The same largesse was bestowed upon many Jewish families who escaped the Soviet Union during World War II and the ensuing Stalin-era purges.
In turn, Germany, Austria and other Western countries have opened their arms to Afghan refugees in the past four decades of perpetual violence in Afghanistan.







// <![CDATA[
RenderGeneralBCVideo(3229386112001,0,0,330,186, "bcvid_3229386112001");brightcove.createExperiences();
// ]]]] >






Afghan refugees seek asylum in Belgium






Second largest group
Until last year, Afghans were the largest global refugee population at 2.6 million people - almost 10 percent of the country's entire population. Today, estimated at 12 percent, they are ranked as the second largest group (after Syrians) to have reached European shores and borders.
According to the United Nations' refugee agency, UNHCR, more than 40,000 Afghans have sought asylum in Europe from January until August this year.
Although tragedies that have befallen Afghan refugees for decades have not made the headlines in Western media, many have died dreadful deaths or have endured untold hardships. Many families are still waiting to hear news of loved ones that have simply vanished en route to a better life.

Also read: Could Syria be Putin's Afghanistan?

Last week alone, Austrian police saved 24 teenage Afghans who had been packed into the back of a small wagon with the doors welded shut. Some 71 others were found dead, sealed in a truck a week earlier.





Since Germany and some other European countries announced that they would accept refugees, Afghanistan's passport department has been inundated with applicants.
 





While the dire security situation prompts many Afghans to risk everything, others flee because of the country's economic stagnation and staggering unemployment rates.
Scores of families sell their belongings or borrow money to pay human smugglers to be transported into Europe. Those who can't afford to pay for an entire family buy passage for only their youngsters, usually skilled sons, in the hope that they might obtain a brighter future in a safe and prosperous country.
Mysterious death
Recently, the body of a young man was returned to his family in Logar province. He had finished his studies last year at Kabul University's medical school. Failure to secure employment had forced the young physician to gamble his life - his parents were told that he died a "mysterious" death somewhere between Iran and Turkey.
But ghastly experiences have not curbed the rate of migration. Since Germany and some other European countries announced that they would accept refugees, Afghanistan's passport department has been inundated with applicants.
According to the passport agency's employees, they are now issuing an average of 2,000 passports a day, a threefold increase from six months ago. Unofficial reports from one border crossing in Nimruz province claim that over 8,000 Afghans cross into Iran on a daily basis. The total number may be much higher, given Afghanistan's porous borders and multiple crossing points.

Also read: Afghanistan: It's the economy, stupid

Germany's announcement of accepting more refugees also instantly decreased the price of the journey from $10,000 up until last week to $4,000.








An Afghan refugee holding his child rests on a railway track after crossing the Serbia-Hungary border [AP]





While it is good news that Europe is revisiting its immigration policy from a humanitarian perspective, the mass exodus spells trouble for Afghanistan's future. This would mark the third major mass migration in less than four decades. The resulting brain drain and flight of educated and skilled human capital will be disastrous for a country in transition.
First exodus
The first wave occurred in the 1980s, as the educated class of the ancient regime fled the Soviet invasion and Afghanistan's communist government.
The bloody mujahideen infighting and subsequent Taliban takeover in the 1990s, prompted a second upsurge of migration, draining the country of the remaining educated elite and an emerging urban middle class.
With the US-led NATO invasion, the unseating of the Taliban, and the establishment of a democratic system at the end of 2001, many Afghans returned to their homeland, bringing back their education acquired in exile, and their global experience.





  





The international involvement has produced a new generation of educated, skilled and socially aware Afghans. It has also created aspirations for a better life, desire for economic prosperity, and expectations for the basic necessities of life.
A generation that was allowed to sample the sweet taste of possibilities, freedom, rights and relative stability, is now dodging explosions and suicide attacks. 
In the first half of 2015, the United Nations reported that almost 5,000 civilian casualties were due to Taliban attacks and improvised explosives. 
Psychological repercussions
Intensified violence also affects access to education, healthcare, justice, and economic activity, not to mention profound psychological repercussions.  
Unemployment has reached record heights. Domestic and foreign investments have halted, and the flight of capital is becoming a critical issue. Projects attached to international aid - one of the largest sources of employment in the past decade - have, for the most part, shut down or been placed in hibernation.
The world is also pushing Afghanistan to reach a peace deal with its foes. The recent Taliban splits, increased ISIL presence, and other regional terrorist group activities, along with Pakistan's continued disingenuity have all further complicated the peace process.
The nascent Afghan National Security Forces have performed remarkably well, but without international military assistance, Afghanistan’s war against terrorism and peace efforts will be futile.
Germany and other Western states may show generosity in accepting refugees, but unless the world revamps the Afghan economy and seriously engages in the restoration of security, the brain drain will gravely reverse the trillion-dollar global effort in rehabilitating and stabilising Afghanistan. 
Helena Malikyar is an Afghan political analyst and historian.  
   The views expressed in this article are the author's own and do not necessarily reflect Al Jazeera's editorial policy. Source: Al Jazeera +++ 
Al Jazeera +16 September 2015 01:49:49 GMT+ 
US Secretary of State John Kerry has told Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov that Moscow's "continued support for Syrian President Bashar al-Assad risks exacerbating and extending the conflict" in the country.
Kerry made the comments on Tuesday in his third phone call to Lavrov in the past 10 days, a US state department official said, seeking to clarify the intent of Russia's military build-up in Syria.
The call came shortly after Russian President Vladimir Putin defended his military assistance to Assad's government and said it was impossible to defeat the Islamic State of Iraq and Levant (ISIL) without cooperating with Damascus and urged other countries to join the cause.





  





A readout of the call released by the state department late on Tuesday, said: "Secretary Kerry also reaffirmed the US commitment to fight ISIL with a coalition of more than 60 countries, of which Assad could never be a credible member, and emphasised the US would welcome a constructive Russian role in counter-ISIL efforts.
"The secretary stressed that there is no military solution to the overall conflict in Syria, which can only be resolved by a political transition away from Assad."
'Doomed to failure'
Kerry will travel to London later this week for talks to include the situation in Syria with British Foreign Secretary Phillip Hammond and the foreign minister of the United Arab Emirates.

OPINION: Could Syria be Putin's Afghanistan?

At the White House, spokesman Josh Earnest said Obama might reach out to Putin by phone in the coming days and would not rule out a meeting of the two leaders later this month at the UN General Assembly.
However, administration officials made clear that Kerry was in the lead on conversations with Russia about Syria.
Earnest said the administration's stance on Russia's moves in Syria remains the same as it was last week when Obama told US troops that a strategy to prop up Assad is "doomed to failure".
"We've made clear that further support, military or otherwise, for the Assad regime is destabilising and counter-productive, principally because Assad has lost the legitimacy to lead that country," he said.
"Russia's decision to double down on Assad is a losing bet."
Earnest renewed calls for Russia to cooperate with the US-led coalition conducting air strikes against ISIL which controls large swaths of Syria and Iraq.

RELATED: Syrian refugees: A catastrophe in numbers

"The Russians indicate that they share that goal, and we'd like to see them work cooperatively with the rest of the international community to advance it," he said.
'Client state'
The Obama administration has been unsettled by Russia's ramped up support for Assad, which includes about a half-dozen battle tanks delivered in recent days.
Moscow has also sent other weaponry, along with military advisers, technicians, security guards and portable housing units, with the apparent goal of setting up an airbase near the coastal town of Latakia, a stronghold of the Syrian president.
But US officials say Putin's intentions in Syria, particularly in the medium- to long-term, remain a mystery.
Earnest told reporters that "this would not be the first situation in which President Putin's motivations are rather hard to discern".
"The decision-making process in that country is rather opaque," Earnest said of Russia, adding that Moscow has long used Syria as a "client state".
"That long-standing client-state relationship might lead one to conclude that President Putin is factoring into this equation some long-term considerations," he said.
"But it's not clear exactly what he believes is the best way to advance those longer-term interests that Russia may have inside of Syria."Source: Al Jazeera and agencies +++ 
Al Jazeera +16 September 2015 14:59:12 GMT+ 
Syrian President Bashar al-Assad has said there can be no political solution for his country's crisis until "terrorism" is defeated.
In an interview on Wednesday to Russian media, Assad urged all political and armed factions in Syria to unite in the fight against "terrorist groups", including the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL), al-Nusra Front and "some others".







// <![CDATA[
RenderGeneralBCVideo(4375900480001,0,0,330,186, "bcvid_4375900480001");brightcove.createExperiences();
// ]]]] >






Syria's president admits army struggling for manpower





"We, the political parties, the government and the armed groups that fought against the government, we must all unite in the name of defeating terrorism," Assad said.
He added that he would only give up power if the people - and not the United States - asked him to do so.
Assad said the US, which has been leading a coalition that is carrying out airstrikes on ISIL in Syria and Iraq, refuses to work and coordinate with his government.
Saudi Arabia has reacted to Assad's comments, saying his departure is a "matter of time".
"If Assad does no respond to the political soluion, he will be excluded through a military solution," Adel al-Jubeir, the Saudi foreign minister, said. "He will leave sooner or later, because [he is powerless]... But we hope the solution will be political in order to stem bloodshed."








More than half of Syria's prewar population of 22.4 million has been internally displaced or fled abroad [Reuters]





 Refugee crisis 
Assad accused Europe of supporting "terrorism" and providing "protection for terrorists, calling them moderates, (dividing) them into groups, when they are in fact the terrorist groups in Syria".
He said the refugee crisis hitting the continent was a direct result of the West's support of "extremists".
"If you are worried about them [refugees], stop supporting terrorists," he said.
"How can one be indignant about a drowned child and remain silent about the death of thousands of children, elderly people, women and men killed by terrorists in Syria? These European double standards are unacceptable," he said.
France, Britain and the United States - which have accused Assad's regime of crimes against humanity, including gassing civilians - have openly provided non-lethal aid to rebel groups fighting to overthrow the regime.
The Syrian conflict, which began as a peaceful protest in 2011, has led to at least 250,000 deaths, according to the United Nations. More than half of Syria's prewar population of 22.4 million has been internally displaced or fled abroad.
Source: Agencies +++ 
Al Jazeera +16 September 2015 18:06:46 GMT+ 
The Syrian refugee who was tripped at a border hotspot by a Hungarian journalist in an incident that generated global outrage is moving to a Madrid suburb after a Spanish football academy offered to help rebuild his life.
Osama Abdul Mohsen and his son Zaid were on a train expected to arrive in Madrid at midnight Wednesday, said Luis Miguel Pedraza of the CENAFE school that trains football coaches.
One of the school's coaching graduates who speaks Arabic was on the train with them.







// <![CDATA[
RenderGeneralBCVideo(4487159237001,0,0,330,186, "bcvid_4487159237001");brightcove.createExperiences();
// ]]]] >






Hungary declares state of emergency amid refugee crisis






Mohsen was captured on video carrying his son when camerawoman Petra Laszlo tripped him and sent him tumbling to the ground in a field full of other refugees running from authorities near the Hungarian village of Roszke.
He ended up in Germany, where media reports revealed he had been a football coach in Syria. The school then convinced him to come to Spain, where he will stay for now in an apartment near the school's training facility in the suburb of Getafe.
The school wants to find Mohsen a job in Spain's vast football training sector but he speaks only Arabic plus a little English and would need to learn Spanish, said Pedraza, a former national level football referee.
"The first thing is to get him settled," Pedraza said.
"We're giving him a hand as a humanitarian gesture. Later we'll look for something. He's interested in our school."
The school also plans to help Mohsen apply for asylum in Spain. The country last week agreed to take 17,680 refugees from Syria and other countries under a plan set up by the European Commission.
Laszlo was fired from her job at the right-wing N1TV online channel after footage was aired of her tripping Mohsen and kicking other refugees.
Meanwhile, the first refugees have crossed the Serbia-Croatian frontier, carving out a new route through Europe after Hungary sealed its borders.
Earlier on Wednesday, a group of 30-40 mostly Syrian or Afghan people arrived at the Serbian town of Sid near the Croatian border. They had travelled by bus from the Macedonian border at Presevo, 500km to the south.Source: Al Jazeera and agencies +++ 
Al Jazeera +15 September 2015 12:32:47 GMT+ 
Nabil Hawara spent 20 years as a political prisoner in Syria before fleeing the war-torn country with his family as refugees in 2013 in the hope of reaching Canada - and the promise of a brighter future.
Two-and-a-half years later, he's still waiting on bureaucratic red-tape that would reunite him with his wife and children in Montreal.
Canadian immigration rules wouldn't allow Hawara to bring his family along from Turkey after he applied for refugee status, and he now spends his days eager for updates from the government, which hasn't provided a reason why they're not with him. 





  





"There are no set dates as to when they are supposed to come here," Hawara told Al Jazeera. "We're inquiring and my lawyer is sending emails to the embassy asking for updates, and we still haven't received a response on their status." 
He said no one at the Canadian embassy in Ankara is willing to give his family any information regarding their file. Desperate, Hawara is looking for any help he can get.
"I've given several interviews last year and this year to the Canadian media. I'm trying to express, as best as I can, how much our family needs support. I miss my children. This is not a typical immigration story," Hawara said.

RELATED: Harper's political future has already hit the rocks

Canada's strict refugee policies have been criticised after coverage of the current election campaign shifted towards the Syrian refugee crisis.
It began with the heart-breaking images of Alan Kurdi - the three-year-old whose body was washed ashore on a Turkish beach after his family attempted to reach Europe by sea. The family had hoped to go to Canada where a close relative lives.
With the four-year Syrian civil war raging on and sending tens-of-thousands fleeing, the story of the Kurdi family touched many Canadians.
Jerry Topolski, a Canadian lawyer from Toronto, told Al Jazeera in recent months he and others filed an application to sponsor and resettle a Syrian refugee family in Canada through a private sponsorship programme.
"I then discovered that it's not as easy as one would think or one would hope," he said.
According to figures provided by the Canadian government, private sponsorship can take one year or longer before a refugee family is able to get to Canada.
"I had truly hoped that we'd be able to bring a family over and they would start school with my children in September. That hope was likely naive, but I discovered how naive it was in the last few months," Topolski said.
A statement by Citizenship and Immigration Canada to Al Jazeera said several factors, such as medical and security clearances, add to the waiting time - even during the crisis unfolding in Syria.
"Interviewing applicants can be complicated by a lack of access, a lack of documentation, and difficulties in establishing family relationships. As well, sponsors are required to demonstrate their ability to meet the required financial obligations of sponsorship," it said.
Last January, the government agreed to resettle 11,300 Syrian refugees by the end of 2017. At a campaign stop last week, Prime Minister Stephen Harper also said Canada would welcome 10,000 more Syrian and Iraqi refugees over the next few years.

RELATED: Canada tightens citizenship laws to fight 'terrorism'

Loly Rico, president of the Canadian Council for Refugees, said she doesn't believe the Canadian government is prioritising the crisis, alleging it has "no willingness" to bring in more Syrian refugees.
In a recent interview, Immigration Minister Chris Alexander described Canada as "the most generous country for refugees in the world". Rico rejected that statement, arguing while Canada has historically been a leader in helping refugees, today this is not the case.
"This government has no interest in refugees," Rico said.
Scott Gilmore, a former Canadian diplomat, is proposing that Canada accept 200,000 Syrian refugees.
"We take a large number of immigrants who have a lot of money and are willing to buy their way into the Canadian middle class, but we take almost no refugees who are coming because they have no money," Gilmore told Al Jazeera.
In an open letter published Saturday, former prime minister Jean Chretien described Harper's response to Syria and Iraq as "cold-hearted".
Chretien wrote that during its tenure, "the Harper government has tarnished almost 60 years of Canada's reputation".

RELATED: Welcome to Canada but don't get too comfortable

Between January 2014 and August 2015, Canada resettled 2,374 Syrian refugees. Privately sponsored groups in Canada are responsible for more than half of that number: 1,723.
These numbers do not reflect Canada's history with refugees and humanitarian crises. Between 1979 and 1980, Canada airlifted 60,000 Vietnamese refugees. It did the same with 5,000 people from Kosovo in the 1990s.
"And there was no debate. There was no controversy. It was Canada opening the heart. It was what Canada was in those days," Chretien said at a campaign rally on Sunday.
After all the pressure, the government announced it would match up to $100m in donations for Syria.








South Vietnamese refugees bound for Canada in 1975 after communist forces took over the Southeast Asian country [AP]





Media coverage of the election has also highlighted the conservative government's terrorism fears.
Harper told his audience at a campaign event that speeding up is not in the country's best security interests.
"We cannot open the floodgates and airlift tens of thousands of refugees out of a terrorist war zone without proper process. That is too great a risk for Canada," Harper said at a campaign stop. 
Canadian Defence Minister Jason Kenney ruled out airlifting refugees, calling the idea "completely imprudent".
"The opposition parties who are talking about airlifting people out of camps clearly do not understand the nuance of the situation," Kenney said.
Alexander echoed Kenney's response by saying Canada cannot act as it did in back in 1979 when it airlifted refugees from Vietnam. 
"Terrorism was not a phenomenon there," Alexander said in an interview.
But Topolski rejected the argument that some Syrian refugees would be security threats.
"The notion that somebody is going to build a family, flee their country, hope to immigrate, and then one day commit a terrorist act is one that Canadians should not accept," Topolski said.
"It's an argument premised on a lack of facts and one that is steeped in racism."Source: Al Jazeera +++ 
Al Jazeera +15 September 2015 03:30:30 GMT+ 
Under a new immigration law which has come into effect following the failure of European Union ministers to agree on a common strategy, refugees face deportation and jail terms if they enter Hungary illegally.
Hungary is on the front-line of Europe's refugee crisis, with almost 200,000 people travelling up from Greece through the western Balkans and entering the country this year, most of them seeking to travel on to Germany.
On Monday, Hungary closed the main crossing with Serbia and more states imposed border checks in the face of the continent's ongoing refugee crisis.
Hungary will also reject asylum seekers entering from Serbia who have not previously sought asylum in its southern neighbour, a government spokesperson said.

In pictures: A desperate journey to a fate unknown

"Certainly, as that is the international legal rule, therefore it must be done that way," Zoltan Kovacs said at Hungary's southern border with Serbia when asked if such refugees would be turned back.





  





With Europe's 20-year-old Schengen passport-free zone feeling the pressure, Austria and Slovakia said on Monday they would follow economic powerhouse Germany's lead in reinstating border controls to deal with the flow of people.
Poland said it was considering similar steps while the Netherlands said it would have "more patrols" on its frontiers.
Long traffic jams built up on the Germany-Austria border and refugees were left stranded on non-EU Serbia's side of the frontier with Hungary in the latest chaotic scenes from the biggest such crisis since World War II.
No agreement reached
Amid opposition from eastern states, EU ministers failed to reach an agreement on a plan to share out 120,000 refugees and ease the burden on front-line states from the tide of people fleeing war zones like Syria and Afghanistan.
"We did not have the agreement we wanted," Dimitris Avramopoulos, EU migration commissioner, said after Monday's emergency meeting in Brussels, adding that they hoped to reach a deal in October.
More than 430,000 people have crossed the Mediterranean Sea to Europe so far this year, with 2,748 dying, and more coming every day.







// <![CDATA[
RenderGeneralBCVideo(4480932822001, 0, 0, 330, 186, "bcvid_4480932822001");
                            brightcove.createExperiences();
// ]]]] >






Hungary's war on refugees - The Listening Post (Lead)





It is not just Hungary which is reeling from the refugee flow through Europe.
Other countries are now feeling the strain too, and Germany shocked its EU partners on Sunday when it admitted that it had to reinstate border controls eliminated under Schengen in the late 1990s to cope with the influx.
Vice Chancellor Sigmar Gabriel said there were "many signs that Germany this year will take in not 800,000 refugees, as forecast by the interior ministry, but one million".
Al Jazeera's Jacky Rowland, reporting from Brussels on Monday, said Germany's decision had set a "precedent" for others to follow.
"Until now people have been able to travel without having to show any documents as long as they were coming from another EU country," she said.

RELATED: Orban, Hungary and the walls of Europe

 
"Freedom of movement is one of the principles that has been at the heart of the EU, and it's a privilege that is particularly valued by the more recent members of the EU in Eastern Europe."
Border checks
Austria and Slovakia took advantage of the U-turn by Chancellor Angela Merkel's government - which had previously said it would throw open its doors to Syrian refugees - to reinstate their own border checks.
"We will proceed as Germany did," Johanna Mikl-Leitner, the Austrian interior minister, said in Brussels.
Poland said it will impose border controls at the first sign of "any threat" while the Netherlands promised "more" patrols.







// <![CDATA[
RenderGeneralBCVideo(4478933875001, 0, 0, 330, 186, "bcvid_4478933875001");
                            brightcove.createExperiences();
// ]]]] >






Counting the Cost - The billion dollar business of refugee smuggling





EU states can impose temporary controls for security reasons under the Schengen treaty but there are fears the very ideal of a borderless Europe could collapse.
Divisions were also rife over the plan unveiled last week by the European Commission - the EU's executive - for binding quotas to redistribute 120,000 refugees.
Hopes of a unanimous deal collapsed in the face of opposition from Hungary, the Czech Republic, Slovakia and Romania at the crisis meeting in Brussels, officials said.
"There was no consensus, several countries disagreed," Robert Kalinak, Slovakia's interior minister, was quoted as saying by the Czech news agency CTK after the crisis talks.
He said it was "crucial" for EU leaders to have a special summit on the issue.
"There was no consensus, several countries disagreed. It was not only us or the Czech Republic, but other countries as well."
However, the EU ministers formally approved a plan first aired in May to relocate 40,000 refugees.







// <![CDATA[
RenderGeneralBCVideo(4484501450001,0,0,330,186, "bcvid_4484501450001");brightcove.createExperiences();
// ]]]] >






Inside Story: Can the Schengen treaty survive?





They also approved plans for military action against people smugglers in the Mediterranean, seizing and if necessary destroying boats.
With the human side of the crisis prompting a wave of sympathy, the aunt of drowned Syrian toddler Alan Kurdi, whose body was washed up on a Turkish beach two weeks ago, travelled to Brussels to lobby the politicians.
"Open your heart and take action and come up with a shared plan," Teema Kurdi said.
Tragedy struck again off the coast of Greece on Sunday, with 34 more refugees - including four babies and 11 children - drowning when their boat capsized in high winds.
France on Monday announced it would send a frigate to join EU efforts to tackle the people smugglers off the coast of Libya.
"There is a humanitarian obligation to save human lives ... there is also an obligation to react against those seeking to profit from this inhuman situation," Jean-Yves Le Drian, the French defence minister, said.
Source: Al Jazeera and agencies +++ 
Al Jazeera +15 September 2015 11:13:10 GMT+ 
Refugees from Syria's civil war are spending thousands of dollars and risking everything to reach Europe and escape their decimated country.
The conflict, which is in its fifth year, has killed around 250,000 people, forced 3.98 million to flee the country, and internally displaced around 7.6 million people.
The prospect of a better life in Europe has driven many to make the treacherous journey across the Mediterranean. Thousands have died enroute, and as we saw with the photos of three-year-old boy Alan Kurdi, with every boat the situation gets worse.
Their misery, which makes them easy prey for people smugglers, is part of a global phenomenon that produces almost $26bn a year.
Charging an average of around $3,000 a person to reach Europe, the criminal gangs and the industry as a whole are flourishing.
Wal Van Gemert, the deputy director of Europol, joins Counting the Cost to discuss the business of refugee smuggling.
South Sudan: Preventing aid from fuelling corruption
The dire humanitarian situation in South Sudan, the world's youngest nation, has prompted donor countries to pump billions of dollars in aid to help with the overwhelming crisis.
Since the violence began in September 2013, more than 1.7 million people have fled their homes and thousands have been killed.
Amy Dodd, the director of UKAN, a coalition of UK-based development NGO's, joins the programme to dicsuss what can be done to protect aid money from corrupt regimes.Source: Al Jazeera +++ 
Al Jazeera +14 September 2015 11:21:32 GMT+ 
British Prime Minister David Cameron is visiting Lebanon to meet with refugees from the war in neighbouring Syria, Lebanese media reported.
Cameron met several refugees at a camp in the Bekaa Valley on Monday and was scheduled to meet with his Lebanese counterpart Tammam Salam later in the day.
Lebanon hosts more than 1.1 million Syrian refugees - equivalent to a quarter of the country's entire population, the greatest number per capita of any country in the world.
The Lebanese government has called on other countries to share the burden.
Some refugees in Lebanon live in informal tented settlements without easy access to electricity and clean water, while others rent garages, spare rooms or empty buildings to house their families.

RELATED: UNHCR: Syrian refugees cross four million mark






  





Tens of thousands of refugees have been trekking from Greece via the Balkans and Hungary towards Western Europe.
The crisis has prompted some European leaders to announce a greater refugee intake, led by Germany, which expects an estimated 800,000 people to arrive this year.

I'm at a refugee camp in Lebanon, hearing some heartbreaking stories. British aid is doing so much to help. pic.twitter.com/dqpCfDgVKM
— David Cameron (@David_Cameron) September 14, 2015
Cameron announced earlier this month that Britain would take in 20,000 more Syrian refugees, amid growing pressure at home and abroad to address the crisis.
The country has taken in around 5,000 since the Syrian conflict began in 2011.
Cameron said he was visiting Lebanon "to see for myself and to hear for myself stories of refugees and what they need.
"Britain is already the second largest donor to refugee camps to this whole crisis, really helping in a way that many other countries aren't with serious amounts of money," he said.
"We will go on doing that including increasing the amount of money we are giving to educate Syrian children here in Lebanon and elsewhere. I think that's absolutely vital."
UK minister appointed
Britain on Monday announced it had appointed a minister to deal specifically with the 20,000 Syrian refugees that the country has agreed to resettle from camps bordering the war-torn country.
"The queen has been pleased to approve the appointment of Richard Harrington MP as a Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State jointly at the Home Office, the Department for Communities and Local Government, and the Department for International Development," said a statement from the Downing Street office   of David Cameron.
An under-secretary is the lowest rank of the three tiers of Britain's government.
The Syrian war, which has killed 250,000 people since 2011, has forced half of all Syrians from their homes, creating 4 million refugees and displacing some 7.6 million more within the country. It is the worst refugee crisis since World War II.








 




Source: Al Jazeera and agencies +++ 
Al Jazeera +14 September 2015 04:42:35 GMT+ 
The European Union will hold a meeting on spreading the burden of the refugee crisis across the bloc, a day after Germany admitted it could no longer cope with a record influx of refugees and reintroduced border controls.
The German decision was announced on the eve of Monday's emergency talks in Brussels, where interior ministers are expected to debate the European Commission's plan to distribute 160,000 refugees around the continent.
Within hours of Germany's announcement on Sunday, German officers began carrying out the first passport checks near the border with Austria.

Report: Refugees drown as boat capsizes off Greek coast

As night fell, police in fluorescent vests stopped all cars and pedestrians at the Freilassing crossing in Bavaria.
Al Jazeera's Rob Reynolds, reporting from Berlin, said Germany's decision "underscores the chaotic situation" in Europe, as it tries to handle the situation.
Despite an outpouring of public sympathy for the plight of the refugees, many of whom are from Syria, several Eastern European countries have already warned they will oppose any binding quotas on absorbing asylum seekers.







// <![CDATA[
RenderGeneralBCVideo(4480155594001,0,0,330,186, "bcvid_4480155594001");brightcove.createExperiences();
// ]]]] >






Al Jazeera joins Syrian families on journey to Germany





As the EU struggles to respond to the biggest movement of people since World War II, Germany's reinstatement of border checks marked a U-turn on Chancellor Angela Merkel's earlier decision to throw open the country's doors to Syrian refugees.
The border controls effectively suspend Germany's participation in the bloc's borderless Schengen system, one of the cornerstones of the European integration project since it was created in the 1990s.
"The aim of this measure is to stop the current influx to Germany and to return to an orderly process," Thomas de Maiziere, the interior minister, said.
Asylum seekers must understand "they cannot choose the states where they are seeking protection", he said, as Germany also temporarily halted all train traffic to and from Austria.
Germany's actions were welcomed by Viktor Orban, Hungary's prime minister, whose own country is building a fence along its border with Serbia to keep migrants out.
"We understand that this decision was necessary in order to defend Germany's and Europe's values," he told Bild newspaper.







  







The Czech Republic said it would also boost security on the border with Austria.
The developments came as tragedy struck again off the coast of Greece, with 34 more refugees - including four babies and 11 children - drowning when their overcrowded wooden boat capsized in high winds.
The images of hundreds of German police mobilising at the border piled on the pressure in advance of the EU meeting of interior and justice ministers on the plan to introduce compulsory quotas for admitting refugees.
Preliminary talks between the EU's 28 mission chiefs on drafting a document for the ministers' meeting ended without an agreement late on Sunday.
The ambassadors' discussions are set to resume early on Monday, an EU source said, adding that Hungary in particular was insisting on greater controls on the EU's external borders and for a higher number of migrants to be relocated.

RELATED: Refugee crisis is a story of children's resilience

While Germany and France back proposals to help relieve pressure on "front-line" states such as Italy, Greece and Hungary, the quota scheme faces strong resistance from countries such as the Czech Republic, Slovakia and Romania.
Bohuslav Sobotka, the Czech prime minister, insisted his country would never accept compulsory quotas, saying the system "won't work", while Slovakia said it would try to block any such binding measures.
Hungary, which reported a record 4,330 newcomers on Saturday alone, is meanwhile seeking to finish construction on a controversial anti-refugee fence on its frontier by Tuesday, when tough new laws will take effect that mean anyone crossing illegally can be deported or even jailed.








Refugees arrive at the Austrian border town of Nickelsdorf. Both Germany and the Czech Republic are tightening border controls [EPA]





For those already in Hungary, confusion reigned late on Sunday over whether they would be able to enter Germany, the preferred destination of many of the migrants.
Under EU rules, the first country of entry is required to deal with an asylum seeker's request for protection, but Germany had waived the rule for Syrian refugees.
While earning praise for its welcoming stance, German regional authorities have caved in under the sudden surge of migrants.





  





In Munich, overwhelmed local officials said they were stretched to capacity, with more than 13,000 refugees arriving in the city on Saturday alone.
Merkel, whose country expects to receive 800,000 asylum seekers this year, gave warning last month that the passport-free Schengen zone of 26 countries was under threat if the EU failed to work together on coping with the inflow.
"If we don't arrive at a fair distribution then the issue of Schengen will arise - we don't want that," she said.
The International Organisation for Migration said on Friday that more than 430,000 people have crossed the Mediterranean to Europe this year, with 2,748 dying en route or going missing.
The 57-member Organisation of Islamic Cooperation meanwhile urged the United Nations on Sunday to consider a peacekeeping force for Syria to help stem the flow of people trying to reach Europe.
Source: Al Jazeera and agencies +++ 
Al Jazeera +13 September 2015 13:42:53 GMT+ 
Russia will continue its military support of Syria, including sending personnel to the embattled country, Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov was quoted as saying by Russian news agencies.
"There were military supplies, they are ongoing and they will continue. They are inevitably accompanied by Russian specialists, who help to adjust the equipment, to train Syrian personnel how to use these weaponry," Lavrov said on Sunday.
Moscow has come under increased international pressure in recent days over what Washington and Gulf states said is a Russian military build-up in Syria, where the Kremlin has been supporting President Bashar al-Assad in a four and-a-half-year war.

Related: Russian military planes land in Syria

Lavrov also said that Russian President Vladimir Putin, who is travelling to New York for the UN General Assembly meeting later this month, plans to address the assembly on the topics of Syria, the conflict in Ukraine, the state of the global economy and sanctions against Russia.
"He (Putin) will touch specific aspects, such as Syria, the Ukraine crisis. All these crises arise from systemic problems regarding attempts to freeze the process of forming polycentric world," Lavrov said.
The United States and its allies oppose Assad, whose government has been fighting an array of armed groups including the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL)
A US-led coalition is conducting air strikes on ISIL.







// <![CDATA[
RenderGeneralBCVideo(4469201200001,0,0,330,186, "bcvid_4469201200001");brightcove.createExperiences();
// ]]]] >






Inside Story - Europe debating Syria's war





Moscow said its military assistance to the Syrian army is in line with international law, and that Russian servicemen, including military experts, have been present inside Syria for many years, including before the start of the war.
The Syrian civil war in which around 250,000 people have died has caused nearly half Syria's pre-war 23 million strong population to flee, with many thousands attempting to reach Europe.
Lavrov was quoted as saying that Russia is and will continue taking in those who qualify as refugees.
Russia is under Western sanctions due to its role in a conflict in Ukraine between pro-Russian rebels and Ukrainian forces.Source: Agencies +++ 
Al Jazeera +12 September 2015 18:06:54 GMT+ 
Russian military cargo planes have landed in the Syrian city of Latakia, Russia's defence ministry says, as Syria's main opposition group blasted Moscow over its military presence in the country.
Defence Ministry spokesman Major General Igor Konashenkov said on Saturday the supplies were sent to set up a tent camp for more than 1,000 refugees and included beds, mattresses, stoves, water cisterns and food.
Syrian state media confirmed that two Russian planes carrying humanitarian aid had arrived in the coastal city.







// <![CDATA[
RenderGeneralBCVideo(4476698482001,0,0,330,186, "bcvid_4476698482001");brightcove.createExperiences();
// ]]]] >






Russia confirms weapons on flights to Syria





US President Barack Obama on Friday expressed concern about Russia's increased military activity in Syria, particularly at an air base near Latakia.
Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov has said that Russia is airlifting weapons to Syria, a longtime ally, and Russian troops are training the Syrian army on how to use them.
On Saturday the Syrian National Coalition condemned what it called "direct Russian military intervention," describing such a step as "hostile behaviour".
The coalition's statement said the Russian intervention put Moscow in a position that is "hostile to the Syrian people and turns its forces in Syria to occupation forces".
Russia has been a longtime backer of Syria's government, and it has supported Syrian President Bashar Assad throughout the civil war by shielding him from UN sanctions and providing weapons.
It also appears eager to send a broader message that Moscow remains loyal to its allies and strongly resents forceful change of regimes through foreign interference.
"The direct Russian military intervention will not lead to the regime's rescue, give it legitimacy or rehabilitate it," the coalition said in a statement. It added that the Russian intervention will "lead to more killing, destruction and displacement".
Meanwhile, in the Mediterranean island of Cyprus close to the Syrian coast, the government confirmed that Russian authorities have informed it of live-fire naval exercises to be conducted off Syria.
An official who spoke on condition of anonymity because he was not authorised to publicly discuss military matters told the Associated Press on Saturday that such exercises were "routine" and occurred every couple of months.
The official said they would not affect civilian air traffic. It was not known when the exercises would take place.Source: Agencies +++ 
Al Jazeera +11 September 2015 10:34:07 GMT+ 
Macedonia's Foreign Minister Nikola Poposki has said that his country might follow Hungary's example and build a border fence to stem the influx of refugees trekking through the Balkans to reach Western Europe.
The news comes as foreign ministers from four Central European nations are meeting in Prague on Friday, amid a growing rift over the refugee crisis.
The Czech Republic, Hungary, Poland and Slovakia reject quotas proposed by the EU Commission, which proposed 120,000 additional asylum seekers per year to be shared out between 28 member states.







// <![CDATA[
RenderGeneralBCVideo(4477343966001, 0, 0, 330, 186, "bcvid_4477343966001");
                            brightcove.createExperiences();
// ]]]] >






Hungarian police feeding refugees "likes animals in a pen"





 "We too will need some kind of physical defence to reduce illegal border crossing... Either soldiers or a fence or a combination of the two," Poposki was quoted as saying in an interview with Hungarian business weekly Figyelo on Thursday.
He said his country was currently forced to let the 3,000 to 4,000 migrants who arrive in his country on a daily basis continue their journey to Serbia and Hungary unimpeded.
"There is no European consensus on how we can handle this question," he said.
As of 0600 GMT on Friday, an estimated 7,600 refugees had already crossed into Macedonia from Greece in a 24-hour period, according to the UN refugee agency.  
Peter Salama, UNICEF's regional director for the Middle East and North Africa, said millions of people in Syria could become refugees and head to Europe if there is no end to the war.

  Related: Hungary holding refugees in closely guarded camps  

Al Jazeera's Hoda Abdel Hamid, reporting from the border between Greece and Macedonia on Friday, said the situation has settled down after tensions on Thursday.
At the border crossing station, from where our correspondent was reporting, about 1,500 had crossed on Friday morning. They are reportedly being organised into groups of 50 people.
From there, public transportation will then take them to the border with Serbia, our correspondent said. 
But overnight, the situation was tense, with "impatient" refugees facing off with the police. 
"Macedonian border police had blocked their path and frustrations grew once more," she said. "This is not the first time for the Macedonian border guards to use force."





  





Syrian refugees Bassem, his wife Marwa, and their child Ali, were among those in the crowd. They left Syria 25 days ago, entering Greece through the island of Rhodes.
Bassem and Marwa told Al Jazeera that they feared Ali would not make the Mediterranean crossing.
"We know it's going to be difficult here, we know some don't want us, but it's still much better than Syria," Bassem said.
 Major transit 
Along with neighbouring Serbia, Macedonia has become a major transit country for tens of thousands of refugees who trudge up from Greece, after risking their lives crossing the Mediterranean Sea crammed into makeshift boats.
The majority are heading for Germany, which has pledged to welcome hundreds of thousands more refugees having already taken in 450,000 to date since January.
So far, more than 160,000 have already crossed through Macedonia on their way to Serbia and Hungary this year.
Last month, the small Balkan nation declared a state of emergency as it struggled to cope with the relentless stream of people.
Reports overnight said that Hungary's government is considering declaring a state of emergency within the next week. 

  OPINION: Orban, Hungary and the walls of Europe  

Hungary completed a razor-wire barrier along its 175km border with Serbia in late August, but it has failed to stop distraught refugees from scaling the barrier.
The central European nation is building another fence four metres high that it aims to complete by late October or early November, and the government has said it will be manned by the military.
Some 85 percent of those hoping to eventually reach wealthy EU nations such as Germany or Sweden are not merely in search of a better life, but have been forced to leave because of wars in the Middle East, Africa and South Asia, according to the UN's refugee agency.







// <![CDATA[
RenderGeneralBCVideo(4474675417001, 0, 0, 330, 186, "bcvid_4474675417001");
                            brightcove.createExperiences();
// ]]]] >






Hungary to deploy army to stop refugees from crossing border





 On Friday, the wife of an Austrian politician said Hungarian police have been feeding refugees "like animals in a pen" inside a border camp.
Michaela Spritzendorfer filmed the footage of the refugees surging forward against the fences surrounding them as officers toss food packets to them.
It reportedly happened at a makeshift camp in the Hungarian town of Rozke.
The incident was filmed on the same day the UN commissioner on refugees said conditions were getting worse there.
Meanwhile, US President Barack Obama has ordered his administration to increase the number of Syrian refugees allowed into the country.
The United States has taken in just 1,500 Syrians since the civil war began in 2011.Source: Al Jazeera and agencies +++ 
Al Jazeera +11 September 2015 12:29:29 GMT+ 
Millions more in Syria could become refugees and head to Europe if there is no end to the war, Peter Salama, UNICEF's regional director for the Middle East and North Africa, has said.
"There could be millions and millions more refugees leaving Syria and ultimately (going) to the European Union and beyond," he said on Friday.
Salama also said that internal refugees in Syria has now reached almost eight million.
He issued the statement as Syrians and other refugees who are making their way to Europe, are facing several hurdles from police beatings to the bad weather.







// <![CDATA[
RenderGeneralBCVideo(4477343966001, 0, 0,330 ,186 , "bcvid_4477343966001");
                            brightcove.createExperiences();
// ]]]] >






Hungarian police feeding refugees "likes animals in a pen"






At a railway station on Hungary's border with Austria on Friday, there was panic as Syrian refugees were crushed against barriers as they pleaded with the police for help.
In the Hungarian town of Roszke, where refugees are temporarily held, the wife of an Austrian politician has filmed the chaos as police threw food to refugees.
Michaela Spritzendorfer filmed the footage of the refugees surging forward against the fences surrounding them as officers toss food packets to them.
Record numbers of people, many of them fleeing war and conflict, continued to pour into Europe, with around 7,600 entering Macedonia in the last 24 hours.
 Refugee quotas 





It is inappropriate to talk about mandatory quotas, calculated on an extremely bureaucratic basis, almost like an accountancy exercise I might say, without consulting member states
Klaus Iohannis,  Romania president 





Hungarian foreign minister says number of refugees in his country could rise to 400,000-500,000 by the end of this year.
Meanwhile, eastern European countries have rejected refugee quotas despite German warnings over the "biggest challenge" in EU history, amid disturbing footage of refugees in Hungary being fed "like animals".
German Foreign Minister Frank-Walter Steinmeier met counterparts from the Czech Republic, Hungary, Poland, and Slovakia in Prague, but failed to convince them to accept an EU plan to distribute 160,000 refugees around the continent.
"It is inappropriate to talk about mandatory quotas, calculated on an extremely bureaucratic basis, almost like an accountancy exercise I might say, without consulting member states," said Romania President Klaus Iohannis.
On Friday, the UN's refugee agency welcomed the EU plan to distribute refugees, but said more was needed to relieve pressure on frontline states.
"The relocation scheme can only succeed if it is accompanied by large-scale emergency reception, assistance and registration efforts in the countries most impacted by arrivals, particularly Greece, Hungary and Italy," said spokesman William Spindler, adding that 200,000 places would be needed by the end of 2016.
Hungary, which has been criticised for its anti-refugee stance, has sent more troops to help build a four-metre fence along its southern border with Serbia.
Despite laying razor wire along its 175-km frontier late last month, police said 3,601 migrants entered Hungary on Thursday, beating the previous record of 3,321 set two days earlier.
Macedonia is also contemplating   building its own fence   to stop the refugee influx, according to Foreign Minister Nikola Poposki, triggering a rush of refugees. 

  Related: Hungary holding refugees in closely guarded camps  

On Thursday, Macedonian police trying to implement some order, beat back rain-soaked refugees as they attempted to enter the border from Greece.
Al Jazeera's Hoda Abdel Hamid, reporting from the border between Greece and Macedonia on Friday, said the situation has settled down after tensions on Thursday.





  





"The situation is calm and organised now," she said. "But they are very worried once they crossed into Macedonia."
Along with neighbouring Serbia, Macedonia has become a major transit country for tens of thousands of refugees who trudge up from Greece, after risking their lives crossing the Mediterranean Sea crammed into makeshift boats.
Meanwhile, a UNHCR spokesman welcomed an offer by US President Barack Obama to take 10,000 Syrian refugees but said it was inadequate given the scale of the exodus of people fleeing war and persecution.
The United States has taken in just 1,500 Syrians since the civil war began in 2011.Source: Al Jazeera and agencies +++ 
Al Jazeera +11 September 2015 06:39:21 GMT+ 
The photograph of Aylan Kurdi, the three-year-old Syrian-Kurdish boy, whose body was discovered on a beach near the Turkish resort town of Bodrum, will haunt the world for generations to come. Aylan, his brother Galip, and their mother Rehan, are the most recent victims of a global tragedy in Syria, a disaster with more responsible parties than can be counted. Having failed to flee to freedom, their dead bodies were returned for burial to their hometown of Kobane.      
 According    to one report  ,    the conflict in Syria has produced upwards of four millions Syrian refugees outside the country (even more are internally displaced), from a total population of 22 million. Nation states outside the region have pledged to resettle less than two percent of the refugees. 
 If, like me, you have been transfixed by your screens, watching the plight of a fraction of those crossing European borders from Hungary to Germany you will experience only an inkling of the horrors Syrians have faced. 
 Crisis response







// <![CDATA[
RenderGeneralBCVideo(4466245024001,0,0,330,186, "bcvid_4466245024001");brightcove.createExperiences();
// ]]]] >





Inside Story - Desperate journeys





 Europe claims it faces its most serious refugee crisis since World War II. The question which arises is what are the countries in the immediate vicinity of Syria doing in response to this crisis?     
 Of the more than four million Syrian refugees, almost half of them, the largest concentration, have gone to  Turkey  . In addition to Turkey, Camp Zaatari in Jordan has received tens of thousands of Syrian refugees. There are also Syrian and other refugees scattered throughout the Arab and Muslim world, particularly in Lebanon.       
 There is one glaring case of a Muslim country that is heavily involved in Syria but has yet to accept a single Syrian refugee, and that is the Islamic Republic of Iran. Iceland, which has a population of just over 300,000 residents, has accepted scores of Syrians, but not a single refugee has been admitted to Iran. Why not? 

  Also read:   Iran: The deal that cuts both ways 

Iran's influence over the conflict in Syria is wide-ranging and direct. The Iranian ruling regime has steadfastly supported Syrian President Bashar al-Assad no matter how murderous his war crimes against Syrian people.





Iran does not have a particularly rosy record of hospitality towards people who have sought refuge within its borders.
 





 There are of course many other countries directly and indirectly responsible for the catastrophe in Syria. From Turkey to Saudi Arabia and its Arab Gulf allies, from the United States to other European and regional allies, there is scarcely any county that is exempt.     
 But in order for that fact not to become a mere truism, we must hold specific countries responsible for their actions. If Iran is so directly involved in sustaining the atrocities of the Syrian regime which have caused this humanitarian disaster, then why should Iran not accept its share of Syrian refugees?       
 The fact of a political phantasm 
 Iran does not have a particularly rosy record of hospitality towards people who have sought refuge within its borders. Afghan refugees have been subject to racism by both the ruling regime and by certain segments of Iranian society. 
 As soon as Iranians travel to Europe or to the US they are very quick to criticise signs of Islamophobia and racism, but they scarce cast a critical gaze at their own behaviour.     
 Iran's protection of the murderous Assad regime but unwillingness to accept any responsibility for its role in Syria raises another more serious dilemma. 

  Also read:   Europe's light bulb moment? 

Syrian and other refugees from the Arab and Muslim world are drawn to Europe and to Germany in particular, by the spell of a political phantasm which is informed by more than just social realities, economic forces, and political intransigence. They are drawn to Europe, a continent sometimes alive with right-wing neuroses, because they look at their own immediate neighbours, from Turkey to Iran to Saudi Arabia, as chiefly responsible for the bloody predicament from which they are running away.      





  





 The Arab and Muslim world faces a debilitating moral crisis today, particularly exacerbated by the aftermath of the Arab Spring which initially raised high hopes. Those ideals are now in despair due to the actions of the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant. 
 The record of the ruling regime in Iran in aiding and abetting the Assad regime and yet refusing to accept responsibility for its consequences, is emblematic of a revolting political culture in which human lives mean very little, and the survival of tyranny means everything.  
  Hamid Dabashi is Hagop Kevorkian Professor of Iranian Studies and Comparative Literature at Columbia University in New York.  
    The views expressed in this article are the author's own and do not necessarily reflect Al Jazeera's editorial policy.      Source: Al Jazeera +++ 
Al Jazeera +11 September 2015 13:06:52 GMT+ 
Thousands of weary refugees have continued to share desperate stories of survival as they make their way across Europe's borders, as European Union leaders ramp up the debate about how many people each member state should accept.
On Hungary's border with Serbia, fear and fatigue have overcome many of the refugees, as Budapest prepared to deploy its military to bolster its border and stop people from crossing.
The landlocked central European state is also building a fence to keep the refugees out, but it did not stop hundreds of refugees from scaling the fences and making their way into the country on Wednesday.







// <![CDATA[
RenderGeneralBCVideo(4473180442001, 0, 0, 330, 186, "bcvid_4473180442001");
                            brightcove.createExperiences();
// ]]]] >






Risking everything in Turkey to make it to Europe






Al Jazeera's Mohammed Jamjoom, reporting from the border town of Roszke in Hungary on Thursday, said it is unclear when Hungary will deploy the army.  
Our correspondent also reported that rainfall has also worsened the situation for refugees stranded at the border, with some of them returning to the Serbia for fear of a crackdown by Hungarian authorities.  
"There's so much fear among the refugees, and they are completely uncertain about what will happen on the days to come."
Last Wednesday, Jamjoom reported that some refugees are claiming that they have been abused by authorities.
"For many, the borders hardly matter any more, because it's their pain that can't be escaped," our correspondent said, as he followed several refugees, who were making their way to the border by foot. 
For Sabah, a Syrian refugee trying to get to Austria, every day is like torture as she makes her way into Hungary. She told Al Jazeera how she and her husband were beaten by police in Greece.
"When my husband and I got to Greece, a policeman there beat us. He hit my husband and me with a metal stick. I was three months pregnant. I lost my baby."
Human Rights Watch said Hungary has become a place of humiliation for Syrian refugees.

 OPINION: The militarisation of the refugee crisis 

  "They are blocked here, they are suffering in the heat, we see children all over the place collapsed in absolute exhaustion," said Peter Bouckaert, Human Rights Watch's emergencies director.
"Hungary cannot cope with this influx of asylum seekers, they're not properly treating these people, and they either have to meet their international obligations and their obligations towards the EU or they have to let these people go to where they want to go, which certainly is not Hungary."
 Heading to Sweden 
Further north in Denmark, authorities have suspended all train services with Germany, after more than 200 refugees refused to disembark from three trains because they did not want to be registered in Denmark.
Refugees have demanded to move northward to Sweden instead.
They were later taken away by volunteers who took them in their cars to their destination, while some refugees tried to reach Sweden on foot along the highway at the Danish-German border.

Danish police later closed the highway.





  





Sweden has promised to issue residency papers to all Syrian refugees and is a preferred destination for thousands of them fleeing the civil war back home.
Back in Strasbourg, European Union Commission members are set for a battle over how to deal with the influx of people fleeing war, hunger and persecution.
European Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker has set out his plan for how many refugees he wants each nation to take. But it is far from clear whether they will agree.
Juncker is calling on member states to agree to provide homes for 160,000 refugees by next year.
But critics say it would not be enough, and Junker himself warned that 500,000 refugees have entered Europe this year, mainly from Syria and Libya.








Juncker is calling on member states to agree to provide homes for 160,000 refugees by next year [AP]




Source: Al Jazeera +++ 
Al Jazeera +11 September 2015 13:22:52 GMT+ 
Al Jazeera +11 September 2015 16:08:32 GMT+ 
Thousands of additional people seeking asylum in Western Europe have pushed through police lines at Austria's main border crossing with Hungary and set off on foot on the highway towards Vienna.
They began their march after rail traffic was sharply reduced due to overcrowding, despite moves by authorities to compensate for that at the Nickelsdorf crossing, the Associated Press news agency reported.







// <![CDATA[
RenderGeneralBCVideo(4477343966001,0,0,330,186, "bcvid_4477343966001");brightcove.createExperiences();
// ]]]] >






Hungarian police feeding refugees "likes animals in a pen"






Police spokesman Helmut Marban said there was "some kind of group dynamic" that started with a few people beginning to walk towards Vienna and quickly developed into a large movement of people.
Regularly scheduled trains from Nickelsdorf continued to other Austrian destinations, including Vienna, with three departures scheduled. But the railway company announced an end to special shuttles between Nickelsdorf and Vienna that had been running for days. Buses and taxis were called to Nickelsdorf to take refugees to the Austrian capital. 
Refugees also continued to enter from Serbia to Hungary, the last stop before reaching Western Europe, on Friday, walking along railway tracks.
Families with little children were sitting on the ground at Hungary's Roszke crossing, sharing food donations and taking care of their youngest family members while taking a rest during their march.
At a station in Roszke, where refugees are temporarily held, the wife of an Austrian politician has filmed the chaos as police threw food to refugees, saying that they were being treated like "animals".
Hungary speeds up fence construction
Hungary has recently increased the number of soldiers building its anti-refugee border fence in order to speed up the construction process.

Related: Hungary holding refugees in closely guarded camps

The country wants to erect the sharply-criticised fence along its border with Serbia as it struggles to cope with huge numbers of refugees travelling up from Greece and the Balkans.
Foreign Minister Peter Szijjarto said on Friday that the number of refugees entering the country could rise to 400,000 to 500,000 by the end of the year.
More than 170,000 migrants, many of them refugees from conflicts in the Middle East, have been recorded entering Hungary so far this year.
Vast majority of them are heading towards Germany via Austria.
In a statement on Friday, Peter Salama, UNICEF's regional director for the Middle East and North Africa, said that millions more in Syria could become refugees and head to Europe if there is no end to the war.
More than 430,000 refugees and migrants have crossed the Mediterranean to Europe so far in 2015, a record number that is more than double the total for the whole of last year, the International Organization for Migration said.Source: Agencies +++ 
Al Jazeera +11 September 2015 08:14:10 GMT+ 
Number Ten has spoken: The UK offers to take 20,000 refugees in over five years. Careful observers quickly pointed out that this equates to six refugees taken per parliamentary constituency each year. Hardly a generous offer.
It was essential for the British Prime Minister David Cameron to act quickly. The road was running out on one of his excuses: that the UK was the biggest donor in Europe to the refugee camps in the countries immediately bordering Syria, and so shouldn't need to take in any refugees at home.
News crews from Channel 4 and the BBC had found evidence of camp children forced into labour to keep their families fed. Far from assisting the refugees, Cameron's aid package has consigned them to miserable stasis.







// <![CDATA[
RenderGeneralBCVideo(4407751377001,0,0,330,186, "bcvid_4407751377001");brightcove.createExperiences();
// ]]]] >





The Listening Post - Politics and polemics: Europe's immigration story





The United Nations is also celebrating its 70th birthday this autumn, and is using the occasion to tell the British media about how poorly it is coping with the maintenance of the camps, mainly thanks to financial shortfalls.
The Eurosceptics and anti-refugee wing of Cameron's party are flexing, with some success. They embarrassed Cameron within days of him returning to parliament as the prime minister and defeated him on a vote to allow the government to campaign in favour of the European Union in the upcoming referendum - a referendum Cameron desperately wants to win. He fears a sudden influx of refugees could swing the vote - hence the staggering of refugees over five years.
Changing tide
The prime minister also had just days before Jean Claude-Juncker delivered his speech to the European Parliament, and was prescient if he predicted the quota system the president now wants to impose.
Cameron is immensely unpopular among European leaders for his scapegoating of Eastern European expatriates and immigrants, and needs leverage.





They [the right wing] ignore that the economic arguments against migration have been shot down by study after study - immigration from both within the EU and outside has had a huge positive effect on the public purse.
 





Perhaps the most prominent factor in forcing Cameron's hand has been a change of heart in the right-wing media. A Conservative government is rarely responsive to left-wing publications like The Daily Mirror or The Guardian, but when The Sun published a front-page plea for Cameron to act on the refugee crisis - the prime minister suddenly listened.
This was the paper whose most prominent columnist, Katie Hopkins, had earlier called those crossing the Mediterranean "cockroaches", while its prominent writers had previously interpreted the comparatively minor Calais crisis as a threat to national, cultural and economic security.
The right-wing press has never been sympathetic to those fleeing persecution, with the Daily Mail opposing Jewish refugees in 1938. Indian Ugandans fleeing Idi Amin in the 1970s were labelled "parasites", mirroring exactly the language of Amin himself - who had called them "bloodsuckers".
In the most recent crisis, The Sun said "Halt the Asylum Tide Now", and "Draw a Red Line on Immigration or Else". The Daily Mail published a headline: "The Swarm on Britain's Streets", echoing the words of the prime minister.
A matter of internal politics
Supporters of this view say the coverage is simply realistic - we cannot afford to take in refugees. They ignore that the economic arguments against migration have been shot down by study after study - immigration from both within the EU and outside has had a huge positive effect on the public purse.
Rather than blaming the new arrivals for strain on the infrastructure, perhaps we should blame our governments for not reinvesting this wealth more wisely.

RELATED: Europe's light bulb moment?

Cameron must also outmanoeuvre the pro-refugee offers from the opposition. The only leading Labour figure to give a firm number has been Yvette Cooper, who proposed 10,000 refugees to be admitted in the UK each year.
Now, she and the First Minister of Scotland Nicola Sturgeon, threatening Cameron's narrow parliamentary majority, have even offered to take refugees into their own homes. Sturgeon has also announced the foundation of a refugee-welcoming task force.
Mutual benefit
Finally, hovering in the background is Cameron's as yet unmet target to cut immigration to the "tens of thousands" - and he surely fears the refugees will be counted into this. In 2014, 318,000 immigrants entered the UK, the highest figure since 2005.
So the final figure, coldly, carefully and callously calculated - is just 20,000. This number is lagging behind what the UK could actually do.

RELATED: The militarisation of the refugee crisis

Let's assume for a moment that the opponents of taking in more refugees aren't doing this consciously or subconsciously because those refugees happen to be largely non-white and largely Muslim, and address two common criticisms.
The first is that we face a security threat from ISIL fighters hiding among the refugees. Nobody is saying this isn't a possibility.
Nevertheless, the process of separating economic migrants from war refugees will necessarily include a vetting procedure, which needn't take place in the UK - a procedure which will far exceed the normal checks most visitors arriving in the UK undergo. Nobody is saying the security services can't be involved in this procedure.





  





Secondly, an estimated 100,000 Jews arrived in the years before World War II - most of their own accord rather than under formal schemes, as the government was pandering to the largely anti-Semitic British press.
Though they endured prejudice, identical to the Islamophobic climate of today, they have gone on to become one of the most economically successful minority groups, starting businesses, creating jobs and generating tax revenue.
Rather than seeing refugees as a burden - we should see them as short-term pain for long-term gain, an opportunity to both do our bit and strengthen our country's economy, for future generations to come.
Alastair Sloan is a London-based journalist. He focuses on injustice and human rights in the UK and international affairs, including human rights, the arms trade, censorship, political unrest and dictatorships.
The views expressed in this article are the author's own and do not necessarily reflect Al Jazeera's editorial policy.Source: Al Jazeera +++ 
Al Jazeera +11 September 2015 02:24:09 GMT+ 
More to this story

Kerry and NATO warn Russia over military acts in Syria
Bulgaria denies air access to Syria-bound Russia planes
US questions Russia over moves in Syria
US voices concern over Russia military buildup in Syria

Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov has confirmed that the country's "humanitarian" flights to Syria carry military equipment as well as humanitarian aid - after the US and NATO warned Moscow over its involvement in the Syrian conflict.
"Russian planes are sending to Syria both military equipment in accordance with current contracts and humanitarian aid," Lavrov told reporters on Thursday.
Russia's Kommersant daily newspaper said earlier on Thursday that Moscow's advanced BTR-82A armoured personnel carriers were among arms supplied to Damascus.
Moscow has previously insisted in public that its flights to Syria were only for humanitarian purposes.
Al Jazeera's Peter Sharp, reporting from Moscow, said that nothing has changed and the Russians have been supplying the Syrian government for years now.
"Going back 60 years, Russia has been supplying Syria with arms, advisers, military equipment. Nothing much has really changed.
"Between 2009 and 2011 Russia was supplying 71 percent of Syria's military needs - everything from jets to military equipment to air defence systems.
"The Russian foreign minister says this continues to take place but he did make a distinction: There has been additional air traffic coming into Latakia's airbase and he says military equipment and humanitarian aid are being delivered," Sharp said. 
"As far as boosting up boots on the ground, he said Russian military specialists are working on training Syrians on using Russian weapons and no additional steps have been taken."
The Kremlin declined to comment on Thursday on whether Russian troops were fighting in Syria, after sources in Lebanon told the Reuters news agency that Russian forces had begun participating in military operations there.







// <![CDATA[
RenderGeneralBCVideo(4469201200001, 0, 0, 330, 186, "bcvid_4469201200001");
                            brightcove.createExperiences();
// ]]]] >






Inside Story: Europe debating Syria's war






"The threat coming from Islamic State [ISIL] is evident... The only force capable of resisting it is the Syrian armed forces," said Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov, reiterating Russia's position that its longtime ally, Syrian President Bashar al-Assad, should be part of international efforts to combat ISIL.
Washington has put pressure on Greece and Bulgaria in recent days to deny Russia's requests to use their airspace for its Syria flights.   
During a press conference with the Slovakian prime minister, Ukrainian Prime Minister Arseny Yatsenyuk announced the country will close its airspace to Russian planes flying to Syria.
On Wednesday, US Secretary of State John Kerry expressed his concern over reports of Russian military activities in Syria, warning that it could fan more violence, a state department spokesman said.
Al Jazeera's Parry Culhane, reporting from Washington, said officials in the White House have not yet commented.
"What officials here are saying is that it is simply wrong to help the government of President Bashar al-Assad because of what he has done to his people.
"There is also a big concern that there could be some sort of accident where the US-led coalition could somehow run into a fight with the Russians," Culhane added.
Aerial imagery indicated that Russia is focusing on Bassel al-Assad International Airport, south of Latakia on Syria's Mediterranean coast, and on the Russian naval facility in Tartus, the AFP news agency reported.
Jens Stoltenberg, the NATO secretary-general, expressed a similar reaction to Kerry, saying the move "will not contribute to solving the conflict".
"I think it is important to now support all efforts to find a political solution to the conflict in Syria. We support very much the efforts by the UN."
One US official, speaking on condition of anonymity, told the AFP news agency that two tank-landing ships have recently arrived at Tartus and about a dozen Russian armoured personnel carriers are now at the Bassel al-Assad airport, named after Bashar al-Assad's older brother.
The official said dozens of Russian naval infantry had arrived in Syria, but their role was likely to protect incoming military hardware rather than a boots-on-the-ground deployment.

 RELATED: Emboldened UK government eyes ISIL strikes in Syria 

In addition, another giant Antonov-124 Condor military transporter had flown into the airport, bringing the total number of transport flights to at least four in recent days.





  





The developments further complicate the deadly crisis in Syria, where the conflict has claimed nearly 250,000 lives since 2011 and triggered a massive outflow of refugees - many of whom are fleeing to Europe.
In an interview with Al Jazeera, Mamoun Abu Nowar, a retired Jordanian air force general, said on Thursday that Russia is sending fighter jets to support the Syrian military.
"It is clearly obvious that Assad's forces have faced setbacks. So this Russian movement sends a great signal that Assad must not go," he said, adding that an estimated 1,000 "prefabricated" houses have been built in Syria to accommodate Russian troops.Source: Al Jazeera and agencies +++ 
Al Jazeera +10 September 2015 19:32:57 GMT+ 
The US is making plans to accept 10,000 Syrian refugees in the coming budget year, the White House has said, a significant increase from the 1,500 migrants that have been cleared to resettle in the US since civil war broke out in the Middle Eastern country more than four years ago.
In a news conference on Thursday, White House spokesman John Earnest said: "One thing that the United States can do is to begin to admit more Syrian refugees into the United States, this year, the fiscal year that ends at the end of this month.
"The United States is on track to take in about 1,500 Syrian refugees. The president has directed his team to scale up that number, next year.
"He has informed his team that he would like them to accept, at least make preparations, to accept at least 10,000 Syrian refugees in the next fiscal year."
The Obama adminstration has been under increasing pressure to do more than just provide money to help meet the humanitarian crisis in Europe.

 RELATED: Refugee crisis: Where are the Gulf countries? 

"The solution here is to meet the most urgent immediate needs of Syrian refugees, to make sure that we can provide basic medical care, basic shelter, basic food and water and even some other things, like internationally run schools in these refugee camps, to try to provide for the basic needs of those Syrians that have been forced from their homes," Earnest said.
Earnest said that about $4bn that the administration has provided to relief agencies and others is the most effective way for the US to help meet the crisis.
But he told journalists that President Barack Obama has decided that admitting more Syrian refugees next year would help boost the US response. The 2016 budget year begins on October 1.
Tens of thousands of people from war-torn countries in the Middle East and Africa have risked their lives during desperate attempts to seek safe haven in Europe.
Thousands of refugees arriving in Hungary have been taken to closely guarded camps surrounded by chain link fencing, barbed wire and patrolled with police dogs.
Hungarian police said on Thursday that 3,300 refugees were taken to camps on Wednesday for initial processing after crossing the Serbian-Hungarian border.
'Not enough to make an impact'
Human Rights First, a non-profit organisation, said on Thursday that the Obama Administration's plans to resettle 10,000 Syrian refugees are not enough to make a significant impact on the global refugee crisis.
"The organisation urges the Obama Administration to lead a global effort to address the situation, including a commitment to resettle at least 100,000 Syrian refugees during the next fiscal year," the group said in a statement.
"This is not leadership, it is barely a token contribution given the size and scale of the global emergency.
"The administration’s announcement that it will commit to take in at least 10,000 Syrian refugees is far too little and is only a drop in the bucket toward providing protection to the more than 4 million Syrians who have fled their country due to horrific violence and persecution," said Human Rights First’s Eleanor Acer. 
Millions of Syrian refugees have fled their country in search of security away from the civil war, where a state of armed conflict has persisted for the past five years.
Source: Agencies +++ 
Al Jazeera +10 September 2015 19:19:51 GMT+ 
Thousands of refugees arriving in Hungary have been taken to closely guarded camps surrounded by chain link fencing, barbed wire and patrolled with police dogs.
Hungarian police said on Thursday that 3,300 refugees were taken to camps on Wednesday for initial processing after crossing the Serbian-Hungarian border.







// <![CDATA[
RenderGeneralBCVideo(4473180442001, 0, 0, 330, 186, "bcvid_4473180442001");
                            brightcove.createExperiences();
// ]]]] >






Risking everything in Turkey to make it to Europe






The AP news agency reported that refugees will later be moved to asylum-seeker centres in other parts of the country.
Basic data is collected at the camps, although in some cases police also take fingerprints.
This is separate from the fingerprinting done by the immigration authorities, which happens at a later stage, typically in the asylum-seeker centres.
The temporary holding facilities are closed and refugees and migrants cannot leave them.
The detention of refugees came as Budapest prepared to deploy its military to bolster its border and stop people from crossing. Al Jazeera has learned that the military is undergoing an exercise to prepare for the deployment. 
On Thursday, another 3,000 migrants crossed into Austria at the main border point with Hungary, but thousands remain in Hungary, while a record 5,000 more have arrived at the Serbian border with Hungary, according to reports from several news agencies and local media.
Al Jazeera's Mohammed Jamjoom, reporting from the border town of Roszke in Hungary on Thursday, said there is fear and confusion after authorities started to round up the refugees.
"There's so much fear among the refugees, and they are completely uncertain about what will happen in the days to come."
Heavy rain on Thursday worsened the already "terrible condition" of refugees stuck at the border, he said. 
"It's very cold and the refugees are freezing. Although there are medics and volunteers trying to help, they are simply not enough," he said.
"They just want a little comfort and compassion."
 Place of humiliation 
Human Rights Watch said Hungary has become a place of humiliation for Syrian refugees.
"They are blocked here, they are suffering in the heat, we see children all over the place collapsed in absolute exhaustion," said Peter Bouckaert, Human Rights Watch's emergencies director.







// <![CDATA[
RenderGeneralBCVideo(4475627413001, 0, 0, 330, 186, "bcvid_4475627413001");
                            brightcove.createExperiences();
// ]]]] >






Challange of passing through Hungary






"Hungary cannot cope with this influx of asylum seekers, they're not properly treating these people, and they either have to meet their international obligations and their obligations towards the EU or they have to let these people go to where they want to go, which certainly is not Hungary."
Hungarian police, however, rejecting allegations that they mistreat the refugees.
Spokeswoman Viktoria Csiszer-Kovacs said refugees at police-run points near the border with Serbia and at registration centers are being given provisions and medical attention.
She called allegations of abuse "blatant lies", saying "illegal migrants are being looked after regularly and constantly".
On Thursday, Austrian rail company OeBB said that train services between Austria and Hungary would be suspended at least for the rest of the day because Austria cannot handle the volume of migrants crossing its borders.
"It would be irresponsible to simply let people keep streaming in and spend the night at train stations," the spokesman said.

 OPINION: The militarisation of the refugee crisis 

Meanwhile in Germany, Chancellor Angela Merkel has visited a home for refugees in Berlin, saying she hopes that the integration of newcomers will be helped by their children learning German in school.
Merkel's brief visit on Thursday to a refugee home in the suburb of Spandau, came as Germany contemplates the task of absorbing the influx of refugees from Syria and elsewhere.
Merkel told reporters after her closed-doors visit that she spoke with two refugee families, one of them with two children now attending a kindergarten.
"Their integration will certainly take place in part via the children, who will learn German very quickly in kindergarten. And I hope and believe that the great majority will want to learn our language very quickly."
Later on Thursday, Barack Obama, the US president, directed his administration to prepare to take in at least 10,000 Syrian refugees next year, according to a White House spokesman.
The number reflects a "significant scaling up" of the US commitment to accept refugees from the war-torn country, Josh Earnest, the White House press secretary said.
Source: Al Jazeera +++ 
Al Jazeera +09 September 2015 13:33:48 GMT+ 
Berlin, Germany - Squeezed onto a small rubber dinghy with 12 other people, Mahmoud Kazazz held on tight to brace against the waves in the Aegean Sea and prayed.
It was his third attempt to cross from Turkey to Greece by boat. On the previous two tries, the rickety vessel capsized shortly after taking off near Izmir.
Soaked through, shivering in his wet clothes, and exhausted, Kazazz refused to give up. As the motorboat rattled across the water, he had one destination in mind - Germany.





  





"I had a life in Syria, I had friends and family and school. I didn't want to leave," Kazazz, 27, from Damascus, told Al Jazeera.
As the civil war in Syria worsened, he embarked on a perilous, dangerous and costly journey to reach safety and a better future in Europe.
Kazazz is one of the hundreds of thousands of people who have come to Germany in recent months - from Syria, Iraq, Libya, Eritrea, Somalia, and Afghanistan. 
As civil wars and conflicts in the Middle East and Africa have sparked a mass exodus - what has now become the largest refugee crisis since World War II - Germany has opened its doors and borders to all those searching for refuge and a safe haven.
Last weekend alone, 20,000 refugees arrived in Munich. Europe's strongest economy is now expecting to take in about 800,000 asylum seekers by the end of this year: more refugees than the entire European Union took in last year - 626,000.
 "The world sees Germany as a country of hope and chances," German Chancellor Angela Merkel said at a news conference last week.

RELATED: Germany's intrepid refugee helpers

"It became an everyday struggle for survival," Kazazz said of the deteriorating situation in Syria after the civil war broke out in the spring of 2011.
At first he wanted to go to the UK, but after he heard of thousands of refugees living in tents in Calais in France and how difficult it seemed to get to Britain, he opted for Germany instead.
He heard from friends that the country opened its borders to Syrian refugees. "I think I have better chances there to build a future. It's a strong economy and education is free. But most of all it's safe and respects human rights," Kazazz said.
Other EU states, meanwhile, have refused to take part in allocation schemes, or like Hungary and Bulgaria, put up fences around their borders to keep refugees out.
"We are grateful that both German politicians and the public have a 'we can do it' attitude," Stefan Teloken, spokesman for UNHCR Germany, said.
A vocal part of the German public supports Merkel's open-door policy.
Hundreds of people cheered, sang and clapped as refugees arrived at the main train stations in Munich and Frankfurt in recent days.
 Locals welcomed them holding up posters that said "Refugees Welcome" and brought food, clothes, blueberry cake, balloons, toys and even baby food and diapers for the youngest of new arrivals. 
In Munich, Germans donated so much that the police had to ask them to stop because they were overwhelmed with the sheer volume of aid items. 
The football club Bayern Munich announced it is building a training camp for refugees, where it will offer German lessons to kids and youth, as well as football clothes and meals. At the next game against FC Augsburg on Saturday, each player will walk into the stadium holding the hands of one German child and one refugee child.

RELATED: Refugee crisis: Where are the Gulf countries?

Despite all the positive energy, however, some observers are questioning how the tens of thousands of newcomers, many of whom are conservative Muslims, will integrate and adapt to German society.
Currently, there are four million Muslims living in Germany, mainly Turkish migrants.
"Now, hundreds of thousands of Arabic Muslims are arriving, which makes a difference in terms of integration," Interior Minister Thomas de Maiziere cautioned in an interview with Die Zeit. 
"We will have to prepare for changes everywhere: school, police, housing, courts and the health system," de Maiziere said. 
However, the German government seems confident that a more diverse demography will bring new vitality into the ageing society. 
"A large part of the 800,000 asylum seekers arriving in Germany this year will most likely stay long term," Teloken said. "Germany is now preparing for this to achieve a successful integration into German society by providing language classes, education and by creating job opportunities for them."
Currently, one refugee incurs a cost of about 13,000 euros ($14,500) per year - including the cost of food, healthcare, pocket money and housing, according to the Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung.
If 800,000 refugees arrive in Germany, the cost will be up to 10 billion euros ($11bn) this year. At a coalition meeting between the main parties on Sunday, the government agreed to set aside 6 billion euros ($6.7bn) in 2016.
Furthermore, German industry leaders have come forward and said they would provide refugees with job opportunities. The Daimler CEO Dieter Zetsche for example announced he would start recruiting young and eager people in refugee centres. 







// <![CDATA[
RenderGeneralBCVideo(4467338664001,0,0,330,186, "bcvid_4467338664001");brightcove.createExperiences();
// ]]]] >





 Thousands of refugees reach Germany





But, not everyone in Germany is on board with the new refugee policy. 
Horst Seehofer, chairman of the CSU, the Bavarian sister party of Merkel's CDU, has spoken out. 
"We cannot take in all refugees alone with 28-member states in the European Union. No society can endure this in the long run," Seehofer said.
The worry for some politicians is that Germany will not be able to bear the financial and logistical demands in the end. 
The influx poses several challenges for local authorities. Some are concerned about housing shortages as the ongoing conflicts in the Middle East continue to drive refugees north. At the current rate, German authorities must build 300,000 new flats to provide housing to hundreds of thousand of new arrivals, according to the German Association of Cities. 
Furthermore, local authorities are struggling to provide proper security as the arrival of so many foreigners has fuelled xenophobic opposition and some violence against them from right-wing groups.
Almost weekly, refugee camps and homes set to house new arrivals are targeted by arson attacks. Neo-Nazis and right-wing groups, especially in the east, have also protested against what they call an "Islamisation of the West".
Kazazz has a network of Syrian friends in Hamburg now - all refugees from the civil war. He wants to learn German quickly to be able to find a job.
But he said it will take him and fellow refugees a long time to adapt to the new country and different culture.
"It was tough when I first got here because it's tough to get a job without speaking the language properly and I wasn't sure whether I'd fit in," Kazazz said.
He insisted, however, he is grateful to be in Germany "because I found peace and safety".
But: "Home is - and will always be - Syria."Source: Al Jazeera +++ 
Al Jazeera +09 September 2015 10:55:14 GMT+ 
It's not that she is angry or even frustrated. She is just tired.
It's the kind of tired neither a holiday nor a rest will cure. It's the kind of tired that comes with living in temporary accommodations for years. The kind of tired that comes with constantly battling heat and dust and looking after her children. The kind of tired that comes after you have been forced to flee for your life and carry your belongings in your hand to a strange place.
I meet Umm Lai in a displacement camp in Baghdad. Her story isn't unusual.
Across Jordan, Lebanon, Iraq, and Turkey people have crossed borders and travelled many kilometres within their own country to find respite from war.
Thousands have crossed continents and have ended up in Europe seeking that same respite. By and large it's taken Europe by surprise. Opinions vary on how to deal with the crisis. Some say Europe and the US should step up. Others say the rich Gulf states should use their enormous wealth to help.

 RELATED: Making refugees feel like human beings 

What no one talks about is the invasion and occupation of Iraq.
March 2003 was the pivotal point. Based on controversial evidence that Saddam Hussein had weapons of mass destruction (WMD), the war drums beat loudly.
The WMD claim was eventually publicly discredited by the CIA's own  Iraq survey group report  . That report proved whispers and intelligence community doubts from the time that Iraq had weapons of mass destruction. 
But it wasn't just those who questioned the evidence. Mass opposition from the British and American public concluded in marches in various Western capitals opposing the war.
Those voices went ignored and in March 2003, the then US president and the British prime minister met in the Azores, Portugal, with the Spanish prime minister, and set into motion events that now include the dead body of three-year-old Aylan Kurdi that washed up on a Turkish beach.
What the Iraq war did was allow space for anger at the unjustified actions of the Western coalition to be moulded into a hardline movement of fighters who would join al-Qaeda In Iraq and other groups.
Before the September 11, 2001 attacks on the World Trade Centre in New York, radical and violent movements were tiny in number. Al-Qaeda and Osama bin Laden were the only real threat.
Arab governments realised that and exiled the group until it found sanctuary in Afghanistan, the very place that bin Laden, funded by Saudi Arabia and the US, learned to fight against the Soviets and hone his violent philosophy.








// <![CDATA[
RenderGeneralBCVideo(4465485994001, 0, 0, 330,186 , "bcvid_4465485994001");
                                brightcove.createExperiences();
// ]]]] >






UpFront - The Arena: Should Iraq consider a formal partition?





 After the September 11 attacks, the extremists got the fight they were looking for when the US invaded Afghanistan. 
Al-Qaeda was defeated, and its host, the Taliban movement, was ousted from power. The group has since waged an armed resistance against the US-backed successive governments.
 The US then invaded and occupied Iraq in 2003.
Suddenly the radical groups had found a new cause and a new fight.
They learned new tactics. They became hardened fighters. They dreamed of a caliphate that would spread across the Arab and Muslim world.
Angry that the US had invaded another Muslim country, money and weapons were donated in huge number from Muslim countries by individuals who might never have thought about donating to a cause that was violent in nature.
Once irrelevant, al-Qaeda became a threat again, and for the first time the group found a foothold in Iraq.
The philosophy of armed rebellion and fighting for God spread. Pakistan, another Muslim nation, found itself fighting an armed rebellion, as did many other countries.

 RELATED: Iraq deputy justice minister kidnapped by masked gunmen 

The 'Arab Spring' of 2011 raised hopes of democratisation in the Middle East, but many of the gains of the revolutionary movements have since been reversed.
Mohamed Morsi, who became Egypt's first democratically elected president, was toppled by the military in 2013. Initially it was not religious or even violent in nature.
It was popular anger at dictators propped up by the West coupled with frustration at the lack of economic development.
Down the dictators fell, and with them, decades of religious suppression. That religious fervour found expression in anger at the US' role in Iraq.
Suddenly religious groups were able to speak freely, and freely they did, mainly about the US and its role in the region.
Then when the protests reached Syria, President Bashar al-Assad knew he didn't want to suffer the same fate as his Arab counterparts.
The West quickly abandoned him and said no negotiations while he was in power. Left with little choice he moved on those that opposed him in a violent and bloody manner.





  





Al-Qaeda in Iraq became ISIL and took huge parts of Syria and Iraq. Other groups sprang up that used religion to recruit.
Syria unravelled and that's why you have millions of refugees.
The Iraq war was the war too far - the one that has changed the Middle East.
It was the war that solidified and unified disparate young men from different countries into following the path of violent jihad.
Had the Iraq war not happened, then Saddam Hussein would have been contained as he was.
This dictator was a threat to freedom and to his own people, but was no longer a threat to his neighbours.
The leaders of ISIL and other radical groups would have found death in Afghanistan or prison elsewhere. However, hindsight and "what if" are the words of those that have the luxury of not living in a tent.
The Iraq war did happen.
The refugee crisis is happening.   Now the only questions the world perhaps should be asking is how we can bring about a political solution to the war in Syria and how we bring all sides to the table.
What the refugee crisis has done is force the Western European public to think. Whether they can force their governments to act and bring about a solution is another question.
The architects of the Iraq war still say their actions had nothing to do with the current crisis.
In 2014, Tony Blair wrote an essay on his website and said: "The civil war in Syria with its attendant disintegration is having its predictable and malign effect. Iraq is now in mortal danger. The whole of the Middle East is under threat."
He argued and continues to argue that the invasion of Iraq had nothing to do with the rise of groups like ISIL and wars in both Iraq and Syria.
I wonder how refugees across Europe feel about those words.Source: Al Jazeera +++ 
Al Jazeera +09 September 2015 00:33:45 GMT+ 
More to this story

UN to Europe: Guarantee to relocate 200,000 refugees
Making refugees feel like human beings
EU president: Refugee crisis is start of real exodus

The head of the UN refugee agency has said that he believed the influx of refugees entering Europe's borders was manageable, as German Chancellor Angela Merkel - who has earned praise for her government's pro-refugee policy - said the EU needed "binding quotas".
UNHCR chief Antonio Guterres said on Tuesday that the number of displaced people would only increase if the world isn't able to better prevent and solve conflicts.
He called for an increase in the number of legal ways for refugees to come to Europe, citing an increase in number of visas, relocation and reunification of people with their families. 

 In pictures: Migrants still arriving in Calais with high hopes 

"I think it is clear that this is a serious crisis, but for me it is also clear that if Europe would be properly organised it would be a manageable crisis.





We can't just say Syria is too far away, we don't care about it, when the entire world is looking at us.
Angela Merkel,  German Chancellor 





"We are talking about four or five thousand people per day in a [European] Union that has 508 million people.
"We have had until now 300,000 who have crossed the Mediterranean, which is less than one per thousand of the European population.
"In Lebanon, we have one-third of its population refugee, so I think we need recognising that this became a very serious crisis in Europe, it is a very serious crisis also largely because Europe is not organised to deal with it because the European asylum system has been extremely dysfunctional and, in the recent weeks, completely chaotic," Guterres said.
Merkel urged greater flexibility in EU migrant quotas as her deputy, Sigmar Gabriel, said Berlin "could surely deal with something in the order of half-a-million [refugees] for several years".
Germany, which has previously said it would take in 800,000 asylum seekers this year, would continue accepting "a greatly disproportionate share" among EU members "because we are an economically strong country", Gabriel told AFP news agency.

 RELATED: Refugees start arriving in Germany after Hungary ordeal 

UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon said that the large majority of people arriving in Europe are refugees fleeing war and violence, who have a right to seek asylum without any form of discrimination.
"The conflict is a colossal tragedy for Syria and a shameful symbol of international divisions. History's judgement will be harsh," Ban said.
Earlier in the day, the UN called on European states to guarantee relocation for 200,000 refugees.
UNHCR spokeswoman Melissa Fleming told Al Jazeera that Europe is a "wealthy" continent that could manage the numbers of people coming in.








Several thousand migrants in Macedonia boarded trains on Sunday to travel north after spending a night in a provisional camp [Reuters]





A record 7,000 Syrian refugees arrived in the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia on Monday, while some 30,000 are on Greek islands, including 20,000 on Lesbos, according to the UN.
Since June, UNICEF said, more than 64,000 migrants have passed through the Macedonian border and 89,161 have been recorded at the Serbian border.
Amid criticism of Europe's response to the refugee crisis, a number of countries have come forward to help ahead of the European Commission meeting where its President Jean-Claude Juncker will lay out plans for handling the refugee crisis on Wednesday.
Earlier on Tuesday, EU President Donald Tusk warned that the refugee crisis affecting Europe was part of an "exodus" from war-torn countries that could last years.
France has announced a $11.16m emergency fund for refugees, while Spain and Poland have offered to host refugees as part of the proposed EU quota.
US President Barack Obama's administration on Tuesday said it was looking at further measures to address the Syrian refugee crisis, amid criticism the world's largest economy is not doing enough.





  





The measures could include more funding to help house and feed refugee camps in Jordan, Turkey and other countries, and admitting more refugees into the US.
Germany and Sweden have called for quotas to distribute refugees across all 28 European Union countries.

 Opinion: One billionaire's dream to build a refugee utopia 

Speaking alongside Sweden's Prime Minister Stefan Lofven in Berlin, Merkel said that all countries in Europe have to take responsibility for the values Europe was founded on in dealing with the current refugee crisis.
"We can't just say Syria is too far away we don't care about it, when the entire world is looking at us" she said.
The crisis will not be solved "tomorrow, or next week, but as soon as possible", Merkel said.
Lofven said that "if people knock on the door who are fleeing from war, terror, rape, then we have to open the door".
As the two leaders met in Berlin, hundreds of migrants tried to get on trains bound for Western Europe at the Keleti station in Budapest, Hungarian media reported.








Since June, UNICEF said, more than 64,000 migrants have passed through the Macedonian border [Reuters]




Source: Al Jazeera and agencies +++ 
Al Jazeera +09 September 2015 09:52:58 GMT+ 
More to this story

UN to Europe: Guarantee to relocate 200,000 refugees
Making refugees feel like human beings
EU president: Refugee crisis is start of real exodus

The president of the European Union Commission has presented his plan to tackle the refugee crisis that is dividing governments in Europe, calling on member nations to agree on a plan to take in 160,000 refugees fleeing from war and terror.
"It is the time for bold, determined action by the European Union," Jean-Claude Juncker declared on Wednesday. "This has to be done in a compulsory way."
"It is a matter of humanity and human dignity," he said, adding that many Europeans themselves have been refugees at one time or another.
"It is high time to act, to manage the refugee crisis, because there is no alternative. No rhetoric. Action is what is needed for the time."
In his proposal, Juncker wants 22 of the member states to accept another 120,000 people, on top of the 40,000 already agreed upon, bringing the total number to 160,000.   

 In pictures: Migrants still arriving in Calais with high hopes

Juncker, however, did not release a specific number of refugees each EU member state must agree to take.  
He also warned member states not to make religious distinctions when deciding to admit refugees.
"There is no religion, there is no belief, there is no philosophy when it comes to refugees. We don't distinguish."
Ahead of his speech, Juncker released a statement on Wednesday offering better protection for refugees but also proposing to improve its frontier defences and deport more "illegal migrants".
He also called for "a swift, determined and comprehensive response to the refugee crisis".
Germany which hosts the largest number of refugees has already backed the idea, so has Sweden, which takes the most number of refugees in relation to its population.
Italy, which is one of the main arrival points for thousands of refugees crossing the Mediterranean is also in favour and so are France and Spain.
Stiff resistance
Under the proposal, countries refusing to take in refugees could face financial penalties.
But the plan has met stiff opposition from countries like Hungary which is building a fence to keep refugees away from its borders.
Its neighbours, the Czech Republic, Poland and the Slovak Republic have also said that mandatory and permanent quotas would be unacceptable.





We can't just say Syria is too far away, we don't care about it, when the entire world is looking at us.
Angela Merkel,  German Chancellor 





Al Jazeera's Jacky Rowland, reporting from Strasbourg, said one of the big debates dividing EU is the type of refugees member states can accept, as some eastern European states have proposed accepting only Christian refugees. 
An estimated 400,000 refugees are expected to cross the Mediterranean this year.
On Tuesday, Antonio Guterres, the head of the UN refugee agency, called for an increase in the number of legal ways for refugees to come to Europe, citing an increase in number of visas, relocation and reunification of people with their families.
Meanwhile, German Chancellor Angela Merkel urged greater flexibility in EU migrant quotas as her deputy, Sigmar Gabriel, said Berlin "could surely deal with something in the order of half-a-million [refugees] for several years".
Speaking alongside Sweden's Prime Minister Stefan Lofven in Berlin on Tuesday, she said that all countries in Europe have to take responsibility for the values Europe was founded on in dealing with the current refugee crisis.
"We can't just say Syria is too far away we don't care about it, when the entire world is looking at us," she said.
Germany, which has previously said it would take in 800,000 asylum seekers this year, would continue accepting "a greatly disproportionate share" among EU members "because we are an economically strong country", Gabriel told AFP news agency.

 RELATED: Refugees start arriving in Germany after Hungary ordeal 

UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon said that the large majority of people arriving in Europe are refugees fleeing war and violence, who have a right to seek asylum without any form of discrimination.
UNHCR spokeswoman Melissa Fleming told Al Jazeera that Europe is a "wealthy" continent that could manage the numbers of people coming in.








Several thousand refugees in Macedonia boarded trains on Sunday to travel north after spending a night in a provisional camp [Reuters]





A record 7,000 Syrian refugees arrived in the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia on Monday, while some 30,000 are on Greek islands, including 20,000 on Lesbos, according to the UN.





  





Since June, UNICEF said, more than 64,000 migrants have passed through the Macedonian border and 89,161 have been recorded at the Serb border.
Also on Tuesday, EU President Donald Tusk warned that the refugee crisis affecting Europe was part of an "exodus" from war-torn countries that could last years.
Thousands more people are still making their way north through Europe.
Al Jazeera's Hoda Abdel Hamid, reporting from the Greek island of Lesbos, said an estimated 18,000 people are still waiting for their chance to travel onwards.Source: Al Jazeera and agencies +++ 
Al Jazeera +09 September 2015 20:52:46 GMT+ 
European Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker has called on EU countries to agree by next week to share 160,000 refugees, as thousands continued to stream across European borders, fleeing from war and persecution.
In an impassioned appeal on Wednesday at the European Parliament in Strasbourg, France, Juncker unveiled a list of new proposals to help Europe confront its biggest refugee crisis since World War II.
The plan, which will see Germany and France take in the lion's share of refugees, is likely to run into serious resistance from some member states.
Juncker warned that Greece, Italy, and Hungary, where most of the refugees are currently camped out, can no longer cope alone.
"It is time for bold, determined action by the European Union," Juncker told EU legislators, noting that some 500,000 migrants and refugees have entered Europe this year, many from conflict-torn Syria and Libya.

 The Iraq war: The root of Europe's refugees crisis 

In his proposal, Juncker wants 22 of the member states to accept another 120,000 people, on top of the 40,000 already agreed upon in June, bringing the total number to 160,000.
All the 120,000 additional refugees are currently in Greece, Italy, and Hungary. Under the new proposal Germany will take in 31,443 refugees; France, 24,031; Spain, 14,931; Poland, 9,287; and The Netherlands, 7,214. Other member nations will take the rest based on wealth, population, unemployment rate and the number of asylum applicants already processed.





  





"It is a matter of humanity and human dignity," Juncker said.
"We are fighting against Islamic State, why are we not ready to accept those who are fleeing Islamic State?" he said, referring to the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) armed group that has taken over territories in Iraq and Syria.
"It is high time to act, to manage the refugee crisis, because there is no alternative. No rhetoric. Action is what is needed for the time."
Al Jazeera's Jacky Rowland, reporting from Strasbourg, said Juncker "told it like it is", making the point that many Europeans themselves have been refugees not long ago.
 Stiff resistance 
Under the proposal, countries refusing to take in refugees could face financial penalties.
Germany, which hosts the largest number of refugees, has already backed the idea.
It has welcomed Syrian refugees, waiving EU rules and saying it expects to deal with more than 800,000 asylum seekers this year alone.
Italy, which is one of the main arrival points for thousands of refugees crossing the Mediterranean is also in favour and so are France and Spain.
But the plan has met stiff opposition from countries like Hungary, which is building a fence to keep refugees away from its borders.







// <![CDATA[
RenderGeneralBCVideo(4470195324001, 0, 0, 300, 462, "bcvid_4470195324001");
                            brightcove.createExperiences();
// ]]]] >






One woman's strength is helping refugees in Macedonia





Al Jazeera's Mohammed Jamjoom, reporting from Roszke on the Hungarian-Serbian border on Wednesday, said Hungary has already clamped down on refugees crossing the country, and has stopped providing information to countries like Austria about the movement of refugees.
Its neighbours, the Czech Republic, Poland, and Slovakia have also said that mandatory and permanent quotas would be unacceptable.
Following Juncker's speech on Wednesday, Bohuslav Sobotka, Czech prime minister, said Europe does not need a new plan to deal with the crisis, and instead stick to an earlier agreement.
"It is necessary to move from negotiating tables to action and to work hard on those measures that we have approved with other EU leaders and agreed on in the past months," Sobotka said in a statement.
The EU's first refugee plan never won full support, and only around 32,000 refugees have been allocated. Hungary was among the countries to reject it, along with the Czech Republic, Slovakia, and Poland.
Juncker wants both plans endorsed on Monday at a meeting of EU interior ministers in Brussels. "This has to be done in a compulsory way," he said.
In Berlin, German Chancellor Angela Merkel backed the new plan and also called for it to be made compulsory.
On Monday, France threw its weight behind the EU plan by saying that it would take in 24,000 refugees this year, exactly the figure the new scheme calls for.
Britain, which is not taking part, announced separately that it would welcome up to 20,000 refugees currently in countries outside of the EU over the next five years.
On Wednesday, the commission also unveiled a plan to set up a $2bn fund to help African nations better manage their borders and help reduce the number of refugees heading for Europe.
Source: Al Jazeera and agencies +++ 
Al Jazeera +09 September 2015 20:58:01 GMT+ 
Europe's refugee crisis and the horrifying images seem to be imprinted into the American people's consciousness in a way that you do not often see.
American citizens and politicians have begun to call for the US to do more. The White House response: We are looking into it.
More specifically, the state department says it wants to increase the number of refugees, but it isn't saying how many.
I attended the White House briefing on Tuesday, and there seemed to be a lot of confusion about just how that would work.
Even Josh Earnest, the press secretary, said he was not sure if the president could accept more refugees without congress.
One of the network reporters suggested the refugee ceiling cannot be changed without changing the laws. Here is the issue with that: it is not true.
The White House staff and press corps should just look at the White House website.
If they did, they would find this memo to congress from President Barack Obama:
 "In accordance with section 207 of the Immigration and Nationality Act (the "Act") (8 U.S.C. 1157), and after appropriate consultations with the Congress, I hereby make the following determinations and authorise the following actions: The admission of up to 70,000 refugees to the United States during Fiscal Year (FY) 2015 is justified by humanitarian concerns ..." 
The president sets the ceiling as it is called, in consultation with congress. For the fiscal year 2015 the limit was set at 70,000 refugees.
That larger number is split by regions. The region that includes Syria allows for 33,000 refugees to be let in this year.
That number gets divided up by 18 different countries, and that includes Afghanistan, Bangladesh, Iraq, Nepal, Pakistan, Sri Lanka, Palestine and Yemen.








The state department says it wants to increase the number of refugees, but it isn't saying how many [AFP]





The state department does not like to talk numbers when it comes to Syrian refugees. They tend to say they plan to take 1,800 by the end of this year.
They focus on the plan to take more than 5,000 next year.
The number they do not highlight? 1,243. According to the Refugee Processing Center website, that is the number of Syrian refugees that have come to the US since the civil war started in 2011.
 Horrifying images 
When we first saw the horrifying images, the White House said it was a problem that Europe had the capacity to deal with. Within days, that changed to say they were reviewing their strategy.
There is growing pressure on Obama to take in more Syrian refugees, and it's not just coming from his liberal base.
I have heard a lot of calls from conservative pundits and politicians saying the US not only should do more, but it has a moral responsibility to act.
Right now the Obama administration is trying to put the focus on the amount of money the US has given to countries dealing with this refugee crisis.








 





They constantly point out the $4bn in aid and say the US is single largest contributor. The administration could decide to increase the money given and not the refugees they let in.
If the president decides to increase the number of refugees welcome in the US, it will be highly controversial.
Right now you have some presidential candidates fanning the flames of fear and loathing of immigrants in the US.
After holding a meeting with John Kerry, the secretary of state, Senator Charles Grassley issued the following statement: "Secretary Kerry initially said that the Obama administration is seeking a reasonable increase in refugees allowed into the United States in the upcoming fiscal year. But when pressed, the administration indicated that they were considering opening the floodgates and using emergency authority to go above what they proposed to Congress in today's consultation. The administration also has not ruled out potentially paroling thousands of Syrians into the United States."
When these politicians berate those in the country without documents, they tend to paint this broad scary, but faceless image.
When it comes to Syrian refugees the people and politicians have seen their faces. They have watched their plight. The outstanding question is, if it will spur them to do more to help ease the suffering.
That is at the centre of the debate happening right now in the halls of power.
Source: Al Jazeera +++ 
Al Jazeera +09 September 2015 13:12:47 GMT+ 
On August 27, the new Australian Border Force (ABF) put out a press release explaining that, as part of something called Operation Fortitude, ABF officials would be stopping passers-by in inner-city Melbourne and demanding to see their visas.
The announcement caused immediate outrage on social media and, after a snap demonstration of several hundred people, authorities cancelled the operation, claiming it had been misunderstood.
Though the racist "White Australia" policy was a central facet of the Australian federation until its abolition in the early 1970s, mandatory detention for refugees was only introduced in 1992. The conservative government of John Howard made deterrence a major policy platform.







// <![CDATA[
RenderGeneralBCVideo(4471472619001,0,0,330,186, "bcvid_4471472619001");brightcove.createExperiences();
// ]]]] >





International community voices concerns about refugee crisis





Since then, both major parties in Australia have been committed to harsh anti-refugee policies. The most controversial of these include housing asylum seekers on the impoverished nations of Papua New Guinea and Nauru in centres notorious for allegations of sexual abuse and violence.
Global practices
The ABF was created on July 1, at a cost of $7m, as a result of a recent merger of the Department of Immigration and the Department of Customs and Border Protection. The organisation is led by Commissioner Roman Quaedvlieg, a former officer of the Australian federal police.
The 5,000 ABF officers wear black paramilitary tunics. Most are authorised to carry guns, detain people and conduct surveillance.
The increasing militarisation of refugee policy in Australia - a wealthy country that's largely isolated from the world's population traffic - reflects a broader international trend. The ABF echoes the American experience, where the US Border Patrol has been subsumed by the Department of Homeland Security's Customs and Border Protection Agency. It guards the crossing from Mexico with assault rifles and military hardware, such as drones, helicopters and motion detectors.

RELATED: Refugee crisis: Where are the Gulf countries?

As Todd Miller, the author of Border Patrol Nation, has written: The American approach to border security is being exported to nations where the US has interests - particularly Central America, but also Iraq, Afghanistan and South Africa.
This week, Israel announced the construction of a wall along its border with Jordan to deter what Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu described as "a wave of illegal migrants and terrorist activists".
Meanwhile, in Europe, many governments are adopting military-style programmes to deter the influx of refugees, blaming traffickers for the crisis and threatening to destroy boats before asylum seekers can board them.

RELATED: Europe's policy did not kill Aylan Kurdi

Hungarian authorities are considering using troops to control refugees crossing the border from Serbia. Tear gas, helicopters, barbed wire and dogs have all been deployed. Greek police threatened the refugees with batons on the island of Lesbos, French authorities have used tear gas on people trying to cross the Eurotunnel from Calais into Britain, and Macedonian officials have used stun grenades.
"Plans to use the army to stop asylum seekers in Bulgaria and Hungary are ill-advised," warned Council of Europe Commissioner for Human Rights Nils Muiznieks last month. "Militarisation of borders is [sic] wrong answer to migration."
Humanitarian rhetoric
It might seem hyperbolic to identify the emergence of the ABF as part of an international war on refugees, especially since successive governments have justified Australia's immigration policy with distinctively humanitarian rhetoric.





It is useful to note the striking parallels with recent wars fought by the West, many of which have also been promoted as humanitarian missions. There are similarities between the rhetoric of the 'war on terror' and the rhetoric of what we might call 'the war on refugees'.





The camps, the secrecy, even the boat turnbacks: They're defended as necessary for saving lives since they ostensibly deter refugees from making the dangerous crossing from Indonesia.
It's not a war against refugees, the government says - it's a war "for" them: a humanitarian intervention seeking to prevent drownings.
Framing militarised border policing as a humanitarian endeavour has consistently wrong-footed refugee advocates in Australia, torn between their instinctive hostility to the army's deployment against refugee boats and their awareness of the asylum seekers drowned each year.
It is useful, then, to note the striking parallels with recent wars fought by the West, many of which have also been promoted as humanitarian missions. There are similarities between the rhetoric of the "war on terror" and the rhetoric of what we might call "the war on refugees".
In 2003, George Bush and Tony Blair won liberal support for Operation Iraqi Freedom by advocating the mission as necessary to save the people of Iraq from Saddam Hussein.
Likewise, Western air strikes on Libya were launched as an operation to save civilians from certain death. Both interventions led directly or indirectly to large population displacements.

RELATED: Europe's light bulb moment?

Indeed, technologies and strategies developed in the "war on terror" - from autonomous camera robots to security sensors - are being adapted to constrain the movement of people.
According to some estimates, the "humanitarian interventions" in Iraq and Afghanistan will eventually cost the US some $6 trillion. A small fraction of that figure could fund safe resettlement projects for all those fleeing from Syria.





  





The outpouring of sympathy over the recent death of Aylan Kurdi provides a glimpse of how the issue might be reframed.
Kurdi's death encouraged many in Australia to see refugees as humans. Those travelling to Australia don't require militarised immigration regimes.
Instead, they seek policies that facilitate their legitimate requests. Their demands are entirely reasonable.
Jeff Sparrow is a writer, editor and broadcaster, and an Honorary Fellow at Victoria University, Melbourne.
The views expressed in this article are the author's own and do not necessarily reflect Al Jazeera's editorial policy.Source: Al Jazeera +++ 
Al Jazeera +08 September 2015 09:40:13 GMT+ 
More to this story

Hundreds break past police near Hungary border
Austrian aid convoy heads for Hungary to help refugees

EU President Donald Tusk has warned that the refugee crisis affecting Europe was part of an "exodus" from war-torn countries that could last years. 







// <![CDATA[
RenderGeneralBCVideo(4467338664001,0,0,,, "bcvid_4467338664001");brightcove.createExperiences();
// ]]]] >






Thousands of refugees reach Germany






Speaking to the Bruegel Institute think-tank in Brussels on Monday, Tusk said the current movement of people mainly from the Middle East would be a "problem for many years to come".
"The present wave of migration is not a one-time incident but the beginning of a real exodus," Tusk said.
European leaders are scrambling for solutions as bloody conflicts in mainly Syria and Iraq send hundreds of thousands of refugees on dangerous voyages through the Balkans and across the Mediterranean to the 28-nation EU.
"Let us have no illusions that we have a silver bullet to reverse the situation," he said.
Tusk, who represents the bloc's leaders, urged for pragmatism and said member states must put aside their deep differences in facing the crisis.
"Also, we should not feel ashamed of our emotions," Tusk said, just days after an image of a refugee toddler drowned on a beach in Turkey shocked the world.

OPINION: Europe's policy did not kill Aylan Kurdi

One of the flashpoints of the crisis is Hungary, where tens of thousands of refugees seek to transit through on their way to wealthier EU states.
On Monday night, hundreds of angry and frustrated asylum seekers broke through police lines near Hungary's southern border with Serbia and began marching north towards Budapest.
Crowds who had grown tired of waiting for buses at Hungary's first refugee holding centre near the border village of Roszke on Monday tore down flimsy police tape, advanced down a country road and walked around rows of police trying to block them.
Officers offered no resistance as about half of the 500-strong crowd reached the M5 highway that connects Serbia and Hungary.





  





They headed north along the shoulder, raising their arms and chanting "Germany! Germany!"
Al Jazeera's Andrew Simmons, reporting from Roszke in Hungary, spoke to several refugees who said they had been poorly treated and did not have access to adequate shelter or sanitation.
"It's getting worse, hundreds of refugees have spent three days living in this field, guarded by police, waiting to be registered," Simmons said.
One refugee said she had been beaten with a stick, while another pleaded with authorities to help her sick child.

RELATED: Europe's light bulb moment?

 
The five-year-old, who was suffering from heat exhaustion and fever, was eventually helped by Hungarian medical teams and put on a drip, Simmons said.
Hungary's Defence Minister Csaba Hende resigned after a national security council meeting was held to discuss the influx of refugees on Monday.
Prime Minister Viktor Orban has pushed for a hardline on Europe's refugee crisis.
Lesbos violence
Fresh clashes also erupted between police and refugees on the Greek island of Lesbos Monday night, which authorities said was "on the verge of explosion".
A dozen or so coastguard personnel and riot police armed with batons struggled to control some 2,500 refugees on the island, screaming "Keep back" at the crowds as they surged towards a government-chartered ship bound for Athens.
A number of European countries have announced they will be taking in part of the influx of people wanting to escape the conflicts in the Middle East.
British Prime Minister David Cameron said his country would resettle up to 20,000 Syrians from camps in Turkey, Jordan, and Syria over the next five years.
French President Francois Hollande said his country would take in 24,000 refugees over the next two years.
The United States government said it was considering a range of approaches in response to the global refugee crisis including with regard to refugee resettlement.








EU states are divided on a quota system, which allocates refugees to different member countries [AP]




Source: Al Jazeera and agencies +++ 
Al Jazeera +08 September 2015 17:54:21 GMT+ 
More to this story

Hundreds break past police near Hungary border
Austrian aid convoy heads for Hungary to help refugees

The United Nations has called on European states to guarantee relocation for 200,000 refugees, as record numbers flee to the continent from war-torn nations.
UNHCR spokeswoman Melissa Fleming told Al Jazeera on Tuesday that Europe is a "wealthy" continent that could manage the numbers of people coming in.
The UN official said European Union countries needed to form a plan where it was mandatory for member states to accept refugees.







// <![CDATA[
RenderGeneralBCVideo(4469667031001,0,0,330,186, "bcvid_4469667031001");brightcove.createExperiences();
// ]]]] >






Hundreds break past police near Hungary border






"There should be EU-led mega-reception centres established in Greece, in Italy and also in Hungary - whereby the people arriving could go to these centres and be received in decent humane conditions, and apply for asylum" Fleming said.
She added that under the current system, countries on Europe's frontier were being "overburdened".
At an earlier press briefing, Fleming said there was not a "German solution to a European problem", in reference to the leading role taken by German Chancellor Angela Merkel in ending the crisis.
"Those can only work if there is a guaranteed relocation system whereby European countries saying yes will take X number. We believe it should be 200,000, that's the number we believe need relocation in Europe countries." 
Al Jazeera's Mohammed Jamjoom, reporting from Vienna, said many refugees arriving there were worried about new measures that would restrict their movement.
"Even the Austrian government at this point doesn't have a clear-cut path ahead... We spoke to a member of the interior ministry and quite clearly the government is struggling to come up with a coherent policy to stay within EU rules," Jamjoom said.
A record 7,000 Syrian refugees arrived in the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia on Monday, while some 30,000 are on Greek islands, including 20,000 on Lesbos, according to the UN.
 'Exodus' 
Fleming's comments came as EU President Donald Tusk warned that the refugee crisis affecting Europe was part of an "exodus" from war-torn countries that could last years. 

Tusk said the current movement of people mainly from the Middle East would be a "problem for many years to come".
"The present wave of migration is not a one-time incident but the beginning of a real exodus," the EU president said addressing a thinktank in Brussels on Monday.
European leaders are scrambling for solutions as bloody conflicts in mainly Syria and Iraq send hundreds of thousands of refugees on dangerous voyages through the Balkans and across the Mediterranean.
"Let us have no illusions that we have a silver bullet to reverse the situation," he said.
Tusk, who represents the bloc's leaders, urged for pragmatism and said member states must put aside their deep differences in facing the crisis.

 OPINION: Europe's policy did not kill Aylan Kurdi 

One of the flashpoints of the crisis is Hungary, where tens of thousands of refugees seek to transit through on their way to wealthier EU states.
On Monday night, hundreds of angry and frustrated asylum seekers broke through police lines near Hungary's southern border with Serbia and began marching north towards Budapest.





  





Al Jazeera's Andrew Simmons, reporting from Roszke in Hungary, spoke to several refugees who said they had been poorly treated and did not have access to adequate shelter or sanitation.
One refugee said she had been beaten with a stick, while another pleaded with authorities to help his sick child.

 RELATED: Europe's light bulb moment? 

The five-year-old, who was suffering from heat exhaustion and fever, was eventually helped by Hungarian medical teams and put on a drip, Simmons said.
Fresh clashes also erupted between police and refugees on the Greek island of Lesbos Monday night, which authorities said was "on the verge of explosion".
A number of European countries have announced they will be taking in part of the influx of people wanting to escape the conflicts in the Middle East.
British Prime Minister David Cameron said his country would resettle up to 20,000 Syrians from camps in Turkey, Jordan, and Syria over the next five years.
French President Francois Hollande said his country would take in 24,000 refugees over the next two years.
The United States government said it was considering a range of approaches in response to the crisis.








EU states are divided on a quota system, which allocates refugees to different member countries [AP]




Source: Al Jazeera and agencies +++ 
Al Jazeera +08 September 2015 12:29:19 GMT+ 
Gevgelija, Macedonia - For people like Gabriela Andreevska, working with Europe-bound refugees crossing her country, Macedonia, feels like the film "Groundhog Day".
Every day, thousands arrive from Syria, Afghanistan, Iraq ,Pakistan and elsewhere to Gevgelija, on the border with Greece.
Most are completely unprepared for the journey. They know little about what they need to do, and they're often travelling with nothing except the clothes on the backs.
The Macedonian government provides little for the refugees crossing its borders illegally. That is where ordinary Macedonians like Gabriela step in.
She, along with other activists, provide the weary travellers with food, clothes, information, and hugs.
"I know it's not part of their culture for me to touch a man, but I do it to let them know they're welcome in Europe," she says.
After a few hours in Gevgelija, most refugees board one of the three daily Soviet-era trains and continue on to the border with Serbia.
But for Gabriela, the situation resets.
After a tiring day helping hundreds of people, she has to prepare for tomorrow, when she will do the same thing all over again.
Every day is very much the same for her, but for the refugees it is a new place and another step on their way to a new life in Western Europe.
While European countries make the journey more difficult as a way of discouraging refugees from coming, Gabriela does the opposite by trying to make their lives just a little bit easier.
Al Jazeera film-maker Matthew Cassel spent a few days following Gabriela at the Macedonia-Greece border and the Macedonia-Serbia border.
Source: Al Jazeera +++ 
Al Jazeera +08 September 2015 12:01:08 GMT+ 
Adelaide, Australia - Hundreds gathered on the banks of the Torrens River to mark the death of Aylan Kurdi, the three-year-old Syrian refugee whose body washed ashore on a Turkish beach.
Illuminated by candlelight, the mood on Monday was sombre as those present observed a minute of silence in between speeches on the need to change Australia's hardline refugee policy.
The Adelaide rally was one of many held across the country and organised under the hashtags #lightthedark and #refugeeswelcome. Thousands turned out in Sydney's Hyde Park and a similar number gathered in Melbourne's Treasury Gardens.
Eman Elhelw, an 18-year-old law and media student, was in the crowd on the banks of the Torrens and told Al Jazeera that attending the vigil offered her hope.







// <![CDATA[
RenderGeneralBCVideo(4458315861001,0,0,330,186, "bcvid_4458315861001");brightcove.createExperiences();
// ]]]] >





 Australia inquiry says Nauru prison unsafe





"This is the little part I can do to voice an opinion to the government that we all stand with refugees and that we need to do more," she said.
"I'm first generation Australian. My parents came from Egypt more than 20 years ago, but it is very easy for myself to imagine being in the Middle East in the current situation. I'm not very far from it. If my parents hadn't come, I would still be there, being raised in it.
"It's very easy to feel very helpless about this issue because there are still a lot of critics, and a lot of people who aren't welcoming, and a lot of people who believe that what Australia is doing is right."
Harsh welcome Down Under
For the last 10 years, Australia's legacy on asylum seekers is one fraught with mass drownings and "detention centres" operating in prison-like conditions, making the issue highly politicised amid the country's political debates.
Under the current system, all refugees who arrive by boat are deemed "illegal maritime arrivals", and none are granted asylum in Australia.
Anyone intercepted by the navy trying to make their way by boat to Australia from neighbouring Indonesia will either be pushed back or detained on Manus Island in Papua New Guinea or the Pacific island of Nauru.
It is a policy framework that has faced mounting criticism in the lead-up to the release of a Senate committee report last week into the abuse of detainees by guards on Manus and Nauru.
The report's publication came against a backdrop of scenes from Europe where thousands of Syrians tried to walk into Germany and Austria, and Prime Minister Tony Abbott's insistence that Australia was an example to follow.
But German plans to take in 800,000 refugees at a cost of $6.6bn have offered an alternative way to deal with refugees that has many calling for the Australian government to do more to help with the humanitarian crisis.

RELATED: Merkel says refugee crisis tests Europe's core ideals

Australia currently accepts 13,740 refugees a year, with plans to increase the number to 18,750 by 2019. The bulk of these is made up of those fleeing Iraq, Afghanistan, and Syria.
The Labor Party opposition has called for the number of refugees taken in to be raised by 10,000 while the Australian Greens Party prefers a figure of 20,000.





  





So far though, Abbott has resisted, suggesting his government may instead consider accepting more refugees from Syria and Iraq as a proportion of the overall number.
"It is important that there be a humanitarian response, but it is important that there be a strong security response as well," Abbott has said.
'Go back'
The border security message is one that resonates with people such as Kim Vuga.
"Our policies are working," Vuga told Al Jazeera. "You can't just look at a picture and make quick decisions on a picture shown around the world."
The Townsville resident recently appeared on Go Back To Where You Came From, a reality television show that takes Australians with opposing views and walks them through the path taken to reach Australia as a refugee.
In it, Vuga spoke with an Indonesia people-smuggler, visited a refugee camp along the Jordanian border for Syrians fleeing the civil war and met Kurdish fighters fighting the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant.
She raised several concerns that range from security to the integration of Muslim communities and said if Australia agrees to increase its refugee intake, those accepted should be Christians.
"We can't look after our own people, and we can't even close the gap with our indigenous in Australia, and so I'm sure we can't even close the gap on another culture that hits our shores," Vuga said.







// <![CDATA[
RenderGeneralBCVideo(4304683641001,0,0,330,186, "bcvid_4304683641001");brightcove.createExperiences();
// ]]]] >





 Asylum-seekers speak on Australia landing attempt





"We already have a Muslim problem in our country. We have people protesting against mosques that are popping up everywhere. If we help anyone, we should be helping Christian refugees."
'Muslim threat'
Vuga's attitude is one shared by some in Europe.
Despite Merkel's willingness to open the German border to thousands of Syrian refugees, others such as Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orban have moved in the direction of Australia and endorsed tough immigration policies and rhetoric over recent months.



Hungary, in particular, has opposed the introduction of a quota that would resettle refugees evenly across the EU in favour of one that would contain the flow of people to countries bordering conflict zones.
In doing so, Orban has variously labelled Syrian refugees "economic migrants" seeking a "German life", and a "Muslim threat" to Christian Europe.
It is a hostility that has been carried over into police attitudes, with reports that groups of refugees passing through Hungary have been tear-gassed and moved into camps.
Not all Hungarians share these attitudes, however. Just last week, former Hungarian Prime Minister Ferenc Gyurcsany opened his home to refugees.
When asked why, he replied: "I am a normal human being."Source: Al Jazeera +++ 
Al Jazeera +08 September 2015 09:41:01 GMT+ 
Millions have been displaced, hundreds of thousands killed, and there's still no solution to end the conflict in Syria.
With the war now entering its fifth year, the situation on the ground remains dire, driving more Syrians towards Europe, or into neighbouring countries.
So far the international community has failed to find a solution to end the fighting.
In recent weeks, there has been a flurry of diplomatic activity.  
But one sticking point remains: whether Bashar al-Assad should stay or go.
Russia and Iran have been staunch supporters of Assad and believe that he should be part of the political solution.
But much of the West and Gulf nations believe that there is no place for Assad in the country's future.
Presenter: Mike Hanna
Guests - 
Jean-Marc Rickli -Assistant professor in International Security at King's College London
Nikolay Kozhanov -Visiting fellow at Chatham House, and non-resident Fellow at Carnegie Moscow 
Aymenn Jawad Al-Tamimi - Fellow at the Middle East ForumSource: Al Jazeera +++ 
Al Jazeera +08 September 2015 07:37:55 GMT+ 
The photograph of Aylan Kurdi, the Syrian child from Kobane whose body washed up on a Turkish beach, has sparked a "light bulb moment" in the heads and hearts of European public and policymakers alike - forcing both significant debate and new policy towards the refugee crisis.
A single image appears to have the potential to change the course of history. The photograph of Aylan Kurdi's death has crystallised a crisis and encapsulated a sense of urgency from both European public and policymakers alike.
People are suddenly alert to the crisis as if a tsunami wave of refugees emanating from the Syrian earthquake has suddenly crashing into the shores of Europe.







// <![CDATA[
RenderGeneralBCVideo(4460311770001,0,0,330,186, "bcvid_4460311770001");brightcove.createExperiences();
// ]]]] >





Photos of drowned Syrian boy spark outcry





The impact is being felt worldwide with newspapers, social media and television news filled with stories of food drives, fundraisers for refugees and petitions urging politicians to accept higher numbers.
Bob Geldof, who played a key role in the "Live Aid" appeal, has said "I have a spare bedroom, I will happily take a Syrian refugee."
People are comparing the impact of Kurdi's photograph with that of the Moon landing and a Guardian editorial wrote the photo "felt like the moment a crisis defined by abstract debates over ideology, statistics and terminology shifted to one about people".
Suddenly Kurdi's death appears to have woken Europe up to what this crisis means - that a fire of the intensity of Syria's conflict was never going to be contained to the region alone.
New data from the UNHCR showed that 366,402 migrants have crossed the Mediterranean this year, with 2,800 dying or going missing en route.

RELATED: Europe's policy did not kill Aylan Kurdi

The human face of the crisis has tragically revealed itself. The invisible has become painfully visible. As Susan Sontag wrote in her book, On Photography, photographs furnish evidence and "something we hear about, but doubt, seems proven when we're shown a photograph of it".
Across Europe there is a widespread distrust of politicians and the tragic scale of the statistics coming out of Syria - where half the population have been forced from their homes - has proved almost impossible to digest. Yet we trust our own eyes.





War photography has bridged conflict to civilisation - who are often appalled by what they see. Suddenly possibilities not just for action on accommodating refugees but for new policy towards Syria are being discussed.
 





The photographer who captured the moment, Nilufer Demir, explained that she was moved to take the heartbreaking image of the 3-year-old's lifeless body so she could "express his scream". There is the innocence of a child versus the seeming guilt of the adults engaged in Syria's bloody civil war.
This is not the first time that a single photography has captured the zeitgeist of an issue and made the complicated both understandable and human.
Samantha Power, now US ambassador to the UN, wrote in her book A Problem from Hell how former US President Bill Clinton was so moved by a photograph of a Kosovan rape victim who hung herself that he immediately escalated his country's response to the conflict.
The images - both still and video - of dead US soldiers being dragged through the streets of Mogadishu in 1993 saw an almost immediate response of withdrawal from the region.
Other conflicts may not have been directly changed but have been defined by photography, whether the image of Kim Phuc running from a napalm attack in Vietnam or the human pyramids of Iraqi prisoners being held in US detention at Abu Ghraib.
Earlier this year campaigners tried to use the power of photographs to put pressure on decision-makers at the UN by having an exhibition of smuggled pictures of Syrian victims of torture in the corridors of the New York headquarters. This may have appalled some of the diplomats but has had a fraction of the impact that Kurdi's death has had globally.





  





War photography has bridged conflict to civilisation - who are often appalled by what they see. Suddenly possibilities not just for action on accommodating refugees but for new policy towards Syria are being discussed.
Domestic political forces that might have pressed for action but absent in the past have arisen with reinforcements from across the political spectrum. Aylan Kurdi was only 3 years old when he died. He'd been born in conflict and passed away in a desperate flight away from it.
His death has shaken the system and allowed for a fresh debate about what can be done about the root cause of Syria's terrible conflict. It should not be in vain.
James Denselow is a writer on Middle East politics and security issues and a research associate at the Foreign Policy Centre.
The views expressed in this article are the author's own and do not necessarily reflect Al Jazeera's editorial policy.Source: Al Jazeera +++ 
Al Jazeera +08 September 2015 01:00:36 GMT+ 
More to this story

Austrian aid convoy heads for Hungary to help refugees
Refugees start arriving in Germany after Hungary ordeal
Thousands of refugees flow into Austria from Hungary
Refugees begin arriving at Hungary-Austria border

Hundreds of angry and frustrated asylum seekers have broken through police lines near Hungary's southern border with Serbia and began marching north towards Budapest.
Crowds who had grown tired of waiting for buses at Hungary's first refugee holding centre near the border village of Roszke on Monday tore down flimsy police tape, advanced down a country road and walked around rows of police trying to block them.
Officers offered no resistance as about half of the 500-strong crowd reached the M5 highway that connects Serbia and Hungary.
They headed north along the shoulder, raising their arms and chanting "Germany! Germany!"








// <![CDATA[
RenderGeneralBCVideo(4466593666001,0,0,260,175, "bcvid_4466593666001");brightcove.createExperiences();
// ]]]] >






Refugees in Munich met by welcoming crowds





Police merely walked beside them as a lone helicopter monitored the marchers' progress north as darkness fell. The highway was blocked for nearly 50km as a precaution.
The move mirrored Friday's surge of people from Budapest towards Austria in a traffic-snarling tactic that forced Hungary to concede defeat and bus thousands to the Austrian border.
Hungary's Defence Minister Csaba Hende resigned after a national security council meeting was held to discuss the influx of refugees on Monday.
Prime Minister Viktor Orban, a right-winger who has pushed for a hardline on Europe's immigration crisis, accepted Hende's resignation on Monday and offered the job to Istvan Simicsko, also a member of his Fidesz party.





  





Destination Germany
Germany's rail company said Monday it had carried 22,000 asylum seekers over the weekend on more than 100 trains, a number boosted by the fact that Hungary again has dropped visa checks on foreigners buying train tickets for the wealthier countries to the west, particularly Germany.
After an overnight cabinet meeting, Germany said it would set aside six billion euros ($6.6bn) to boost aid for asylum seekers and hire 3,000 more federal police.

Refugee crisis: Where are the Gulf countries?

It also planned to make it easier to build refugee housing and for non-German speakers to hold jobs.
German Chancellor Angela Merkel reflected on what she called "a moving, in some parts breathtaking weekend behind us", when Austria and Germany threw open their borders for thousands of asylum seekers trying to get out of Hungary.
She said all EU countries could help accommodate the families fleeing war and poverty.
Britain and France, seen as less generous than Germany so far, overcame reluctance and stepped up their commitments on Monday.








// <![CDATA[
RenderGeneralBCVideo(4466025300001,0,0,260,175, "bcvid_4466025300001");brightcove.createExperiences();
// ]]]] >






Syrian refugees embark on journey from Hungary to Austria





British Prime Minister David Cameron said his country would resettle up to 20,000 Syrians from camps in Turkey, Jordan, and Syria over the next five years.
"The whole country has been deeply moved by the heartbreaking images we have seen over the past few days," he told the British Parliament.
"It is absolutely right that Britain should fulfil its moral responsibility to help those refugees."
French President Francois Hollande said his country would take in 24,000 refugees over the next two years.
The United States government said it was considering a range of approaches in response to the global refugee crisis including with regard to refugee resettlement.
"We are also in regular contact with countries in the Middle East and Europe who have been greatly impacted by the increased refugee flows," White House spokesman Peter Boogaard said in an emailed statement.








Officers offered no resistance as the crowd reached the M5 highway that connects Serbia and Hungary [Marko Djurica/Reuters]




Source: Al Jazeera And AP +++ 
Al Jazeera +07 September 2015 07:34:10 GMT+ 
More to this story

Refugees begin arriving at Hungary-Austria border
EU split as Germany braces for thousands more refugees

Austria has plans to end emergency measures that have allowed thousands of refugees to flow into the country since Saturday. 







// <![CDATA[
RenderGeneralBCVideo(4467338664001,0,0,,, "bcvid_4467338664001");brightcove.createExperiences();
// ]]]] >






Thousands of refugees reach Germany






In an announcement on Sunday, Austria's Chancellor Werner Faymann said his country would move gradually "towards normality".
"We have always said this is an emergency situation in which we must act quickly and humanely. We have helped more than 12,000 people in an acute situation," Faymann said, according to the Reuters news agency.
Thousands of refugees fleeing war-torn nations have arrived in Austria and Germany since Saturday, after being stuck in Hungary for days.

OPINION: Refugee crisis: Where are the Gulf countries?

Vienna had suspended its random border checks after photographs appeared online of a Syrian toddler lying dead on a Turkish beach. The images sparked global outcry and calls within Europe for governments to do more to help those trying to reach the European Union.
Vienna had agreed with Germany to waive rules requiring refugees to register an asylum claim in the first EU country they reach.
Faymann said that decision was being revised following "intensive talks" with German Chancellor Angela Merkel and a telephone call with Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orban, who is bitterly opposed to the waiver.
Orban, who has portrayed the crisis as a defence of Europe's prosperity, identity and "Christian values" against a tide of mainly Muslim refugees, said Germany was encouraging the influx.





As long as Austria and Germany don't say clearly that they won't take in any more migrants, several million new immigrants will come to Europe
Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orban





"As long as Austria and Germany don't say clearly that they won't take in any more migrants, several million new immigrants will come to Europe," he told the Austrian broadcaster ORF.
 Refugees 'overwhelmed' 
  Despite Orban's comments, large groups of Germans and Austrians have flooded entry points in towns and cities across the two countries to welcome refugees.
Al Jazeera's Mohammed Jamjoom, reporting from Nickelsdorf in Austria, said many refugees felt overwhelmed by the response they had received from locals.
"Everybody we've spoken with here today in Nickelsdorf says that their treatment here in Austria has been exceptional, that it's been so much better than the way they were treated in Hungary," Jamjoom said.
One refugee told Jamjoom that the only thing stopping him from staying in Austria was having family members in other EU countries.
"We get treatment, we get food, we get water… I like the people, I like the country. I swear I would stay here ... but my family is in Holland," said Adnan, a Syrian refugee.
Amid the flow of refugees into the country from Austria, the German government has decided to free up an additional $3.35bn for federal states and municipalities to deal with the refugee crisis.





  





Leaders from Merkel's governing coalition also agreed to speed up asylum procedures and facilitate the construction of asylum shelters in a meeting on Sunday. 

 RELATED: Why Al Jazeera will not say Mediterranean 'migrants' 

The agreement also included widening the list of countries deemed "safe", meaning their citizens generally have no claim to asylum, to include Kosovo, Albania, and Montenegro. Among those already in that category are Serbia, Macedonia, and Bosnia.
The aim is to speed up asylum and extradition procedures for those from southeastern Europe, in order to focus on refugees from war-torn countries such as Syria, Iraq, and Afghanistan.
Europe is deeply divided on how to deal with its most severe refugee crisis since World War II. Germany, Austria, and Sweden have called on other EU states to take on a fairer share of refugees, but that suggestion faces opposition from a number of Eastern European states, as well as far-right groups domestically.








European leaders have faced pressure domestically to do more for refugees in light of a series of deadly incidents [AP]




Source: Al Jazeera And Agencies +++ 
Al Jazeera +07 September 2015 11:31:19 GMT+ 
More to this story

Refugees begin arriving at Hungary-Austria border
EU split as Germany braces for thousands more refugees

France's President Francois Hollande has announced his country will take in 24,000 refugees over the next two years, while it is understood Germany will take 31,000 additional people under a European plan which is strongly opposed by Hungary.







// <![CDATA[
RenderGeneralBCVideo(4467338664001, 0, 0, , , "bcvid_4467338664001");
                            brightcove.createExperiences();
// ]]]] >






Thousands of refugees reach Germany





The figure revealed by the French leader on Monday represents France's share of a European proposal to relocate 120,000 refugees.
European Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker is due to unveil new proposals on Wednesday.
EU officials have said Juncker will propose adding 120,000 people to be relocated on top of a group of 40,000 the commission previously proposed relocating.
Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orban told a gathering of foreign ambassadors on Monday, however, that the plan could not be discussed while the EU's outer borders were not secured.
"Our problem is with the timing. As long as we can't defend Europe's outer borders, it is not worth talking about how many people we can take in," he said.
"What does that solve if we divide up 100,000 people, while in the meantime millions are coming?"





If they want to continue on from Hungary, it's not because they are in danger, it's because they want something else.
Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orban





The Hungarian leader instead wants the EU to provide funds to Turkey to keep refugees there, explaining refugees were coming to the EU for financial gain.
"If they want to continue on from Hungary, it's not because they are in danger, it's because they want something else," he said, adding the wanted  "a German life", not physical safety.
Unchecked, the stream of refugees would place an intolerable financial burden on European countries, he said, adding that this would endanger the continent's "Christian welfare states".
The plan is backed by countries including Germany, Austria, and Sweden, but former Eastern Bloc countries like Hungary, have been reluctant to accept the mainly Muslim influx of refugees.
Hungary has struggled to cope with more than 150,000 refugees entering the country this year, including 50,000 in August alone with several thousand arriving each day. The vast majority of those are heading for northern European countries such as Germany and Sweden.
Orban's criticisms of the EU plan came as Austria said it planned to end emergency measures that have allowed thousands of refugees to flow into the country since Saturday. 

In an announcement on Sunday, Austria's Chancellor Werner Faymann said his country would move gradually "towards normality".
"We have always said this is an emergency situation in which we must act quickly and humanely. We have helped more than 12,000 people in an acute situation," Faymann said, according to the Reuters news agency.

 OPINION: Refugee crisis: Where are the Gulf countries? 

Vienna had suspended its random border checks after photographs appeared online of a Syrian toddler lying dead on a Turkish beach. The images sparked global outcry and calls within Europe for governments to do more to help those trying to reach the European Union.
Vienna had agreed with Germany to waive rules requiring refugees to register an asylum claim in the first EU country they reach.
Al Jazeera's Mohammed Jamjoom, reporting from Nickelsdorf in Austria, said refugees "are concerned about the remarks they've been hearing" from Prime Minister Orban and the Austrian chancellor. 
"Austrian officials have told us there won't be border controls, but there will be spot checks because they're trying to stem the tide of human trafficking," he said.





  





Leaders from Merkel's governing coalition also agreed to speed up asylum procedures and facilitate the construction of asylum shelters in a meeting on Sunday. 

 RELATED: Why Al Jazeera will not say Mediterranean 'migrants' 

The agreement also included widening the list of countries deemed "safe", meaning their citizens generally have no claim to asylum, to include Kosovo, Albania, and Montenegro. Among those already in that category are Serbia, Macedonia, and Bosnia.
The aim is to speed up asylum and extradition procedures for those from southeastern Europe, in order to focus on refugees from war-torn countries such as Syria, Iraq, and Afghanistan.








European leaders have faced pressure domestically to do more for refugees in light of a series of deadly incidents [AP]




Source: Al Jazeera And Agencies +++ 
Al Jazeera +07 September 2015 12:26:55 GMT+ 
"Give me your tired, your poor,
Your huddled masses yearning to breathe free,
The wretched refuse of your teeming shore.
 Send these, the homeless, tempest-tost to me." 
 This verse from the poem by Emma Lazarus titled "    The New Colossus  "   was not quite the words used by Naguib Sawiris, but it seems to be what he meant. The Egyptian billionaire caused a tempest when he announced his wish to    buy a Mediterranean island    - possibly near Rhodes, where the original Colossus stood - to provide shelter for the region's desperate refugees. 
 "Greece or Italy sell me an island, I'll [declare] its independence and host the migrants and provide jobs for them building their new country," Sawiris    tweeted    . And this brave, new refugee republic would be named Ilan, the Egyptian tycoon    later elaborated    , in honour of Aylan Kurdi, the    drowned Syrian child     whose haunting image shook the holder.







// <![CDATA[
RenderGeneralBCVideo(4460311770001,0,0,330,186, "bcvid_4460311770001");brightcove.createExperiences();
// ]]]] >





Photos of drowned Syrian boy spark outcry




 
 With neighbouring countries unable to cope further with the influx of Syrian refugees and wealthy regional states doing almost nothing to take them in - while even contributing by proxy to the Syrian refugee crisis and directly in Yemen - Sawiris is the latest entrepreneur to step into the void. One prominent example was Turkey's yoghurt mogul, Hamdi Ulukaya, who pledged to    give away more than half of his $1.4bn fortune    to help Kurdish and other refugees. 
  Symbolic notion  
 Sawiris's proposal resonated so widely because it is an appealing and symbolic notion which tugs at the heartstrings. As untold thousands of refugees take to the sea to escape the shipwreck of failed and failing nation states, Ilan island will provide them with a safe haven from the storm, and a place where they can live in dignity, and not be "treated and used like cattle", in Sawiris' words. 

  Also read:   Refugee crisis: Where are the Gulf countries? 

The scheme, though extremely costly for the Egyptian billionaire, sounds impressively self-sufficient. Housing, educational and other infrastructure on the uninhabited island would be built, and presumably operated, by the refugees themselves, providing them with a shot at independence and dignity, rather than the marginalisation and unemployment that often greets those fleeing conflict.





Sawiris' implied faith in the refugees' abilities, work ethic and potential for productivity is an implicit jab at Europe's anti-immigrant right, who regard refugees and migrants as lazy layabouts...
   





 Sawiris' implied faith in the refugees' abilities, work ethic and potential for productivity is an implicit jab at Europe's anti-immigrant right, who regard refugees and migrants as lazy layabouts and a threat to their way of life. It would also help boost Europe's capacity to absorb refugees by providing it with a purpose-built refuge. 
 That said, despite the presence of numerous candidate islands and the welcome income to the cash-strapped treasuries of Greece or Italy, it seems unlikely that either country will take enthusiastically to the scheme. 
 One major stumbling block is the question of sovereignty. Which European country would be willing to cede territory, which would be declared "independent", to the eccentric scheme of a foreign billionaire? 
  Idealistic project  
 Even if they were to accept this or were to retain sovereignty, there would be the possible fear that, rather than serve as an alternative for refugees who would steer clear of the European mainland, the island would simply become a stepping stone to Europe, rather like the Italian island of Lampedusa or the Greek island of Kos. This would especially be the case if Sawiris' idealistic project ends up becoming little more than a glorified refugee camp, rather than a utopian republic. 
 But it is Sawiris' almost Platonic discourse of a just republic for refugees that is probably the most appealing to the Arab public's ear, especially if, against the odds and expectations, this idealised and idyllic oasis can succeed where Arab regimes have failed. 
 In fact, it would be extremely poignant - even poetic - if refugees fleeing murderous dictatorships and blood-thirsty non-state groups managed to construct a functioning and productive society which respects individual freedom and dignity. If successful, I imagine it would attract Arab immigrants, not just refugees. 








Egyptian billionaire Naguib Sawiris [Getty]





 In addition to the challenge of building an effective society from scratch by    traumatised people from diverse backgrounds, one wonders whether Sawiris will have the commitment to carry through with such a feat. 
 It is true that Sawiris was a    self-declared supporter    (and fairly enthusiastic for a businessman who made the bulk of his fortune under Mubarak) of the 2011 revolution, helping set up the "Council of Wisemen" which was    rejected by Egypt's revolutionary youth    . 
  Can the rich help?  
 However, like with many Egyptians, the rise of the Muslim Brotherhood and Mohamed Morsi spooked him, and the party he established, the Free Egyptians Party,   backed Abdel-Fattah el-Sisi's campaign for president   , despite the clearly undemocratic way Sisi got to where he was and his    violent repression of dissent. 

  Also read:   We're missing the point about Syrian refugees 

This raises the question of whether rich Egyptians and Arabs can help lead their societies down the path to freedom, justice, equality and prosperity.





  





 Some Arab tycoons are joining the growing movement of billionaires committed to philanthropy. For example, Saudi Arabia's Prince Alwaleed bin Talal has voiced his intentions to give away his    considerable fortune. 
 Despite the undoubted value of philanthropy and the importance of interclass solidarity, the world's billionaires are more a part of the problem than the solution, especially when you consider that the   richest 1 percent own more than the rest of the world, and    85 or so billionaires    are worth as much as half of humanity. 
 This is the case in the Arab world, and perhaps more so. Not only is economic inequality massive,    and widening, the region has become a living laboratory for unfettered neoliberal economics and a stronghold for crony capitalism. 
 The intimate links, both explicit and implicit, between the business elites, the military, and repressive regimes across the region mean that, no matter how well-meaning, the individual efforts of (relatively) enlightened tycoons are no substitute for systematic and fundamental change and reform. 
 More than greater philanthropy, the Arab world is crying out for greater social democracy, equity, solidarity, welfare systems, education and justice for all. 
  Khaled Diab is an award-winning Egyptian-Belgian journalist, writer and blogger. He is the author of Intimate Enemies: Living with Israelis and Palestinians in the Holy Land. He blogs at www.chronikler.com.  
  The views expressed in this article are the author's own and do not necessarily reflect Al Jazeera's editorial policy.   Source: Al Jazeera +++ 
Al Jazeera +07 September 2015 21:45:40 GMT+ 
Hungary's Defence Minister Csaba Hende resigned after a national security council meeting was held to discuss the huge influx of refugees and migrants arriving in the country.
Prime Minister Viktor Orban, a right-winger who has pushed for a hard line on Europe's immigration crisis, accepted Hende's resignation on Monday and offered the job to Istvan Simicsko, also a member of his Fidesz party.







// <![CDATA[
RenderGeneralBCVideo(4466025300001, 0, 0, 330, 186, "bcvid_4466025300001"); brightcove.createExperiences();
// ]]]] >






Syrian refugees embark on journey from Hungary to Austria






The country, which has seen more than 100,000 people arrive -many fleeing conflict in the Middle East, last week proposed measures that would allow it to deploy the army to its borders in a bid to stem the inflow.
 Greek island 'on the verge of explosion' 
The Greek island of Lesbos is "on the verge of explosion" with the arrival of more than 15,000 mainly Syrian refugees, pushing local resources to the limit, the immigration minister said.
Yiannis Mouzalas told To Vima radio on Monday that boats taking refugees to the Greek mainland would soon be using a second port to ease pressure on the island of 85,000 inhabitants.
"Mytilene currently has 15,000-17,000 refugees and this is the official figure from all services," Mouzalas, a junior interior minister, told the station.
"We are placing emphasis here because the situation is on the verge of explosion," he said.








Syrian refugees disembark on the island of Lesbos [Getty Images]





 Second departure point 
The minister said the second departure point would open at the fishing village of Sigri in coming days.
Lesbos is one of several Greek islands struggling with an influx of thousands of refugees, many of them Syrian refugees, setting sail from the nearby Turkish coast.
"We hope that in the next five days the [islanders] and the refugees will see clear signs of improvement," he said.
More than 230,000 people have landed on Greek shores this year, with the numbers soaring in recent weeks as people seek to take advantage of the calm summer weather.








 More than 230,000 people have landed on Greek shores this year   [AP]





 UK promise 
Meanwhile on Monday, British Prime Minister David Cameron said the UK will resettle up to 20,000 Syrian refugees from camps in Turkey, Jordan and Syria over the next five years.
The figure represents a vast expansion of Britain's refugee programme, a change signaled by Cameron last week.
He told Parliament that Britain has a moral responsibility to act, citing shocking images in recent days.
Cameron said vulnerable children and orphans will be given priority. New arrivals will be given five-year "humanitarian protection" visas upon arrival in Britain.Source: Agencies +++ 
Al Jazeera +07 September 2015 10:30:14 GMT+ 
Berlin, Germany - It all began when she was on a trip to northern France and stopped at "The Jungle" refugee camp in Calais and started up a conversation with a man who had fled from Eritrea.
"I realised I am here by car and I have the possibility to take someone along - and he doesn't have any other options," the German national told Al Jazeera.
The 28-year-old did not want her name revealed because her actions can bring criminal charges - up to 10 years' imprisonment to be precise. She said she has helped two refugees get into Germany and one to Denmark so far. 







// <![CDATA[
RenderGeneralBCVideo(4466593666001, 0, 0, 330, 186, "bcvid_4466593666001"); brightcove.createExperiences();
// ]]]] >





 Refugees arriving in Munich met by welcoming crowds 





Sitting in a corner of a large, empty office in Berlin, the woman recounted her experience of helping refugees enter her country.
"Of course I was worried the first time around. There is a worst-case scenario for me," she explained.
"But there is also a worst-case scenario for the person who wants to cross the border - a completely different ballgame." 
Her actions come against the backdrop of what has been described as the largest pool of refugees, asylum seekers, and internally displaced persons since World War II.
In the first half of 2015, more than 220,000 refugees applied for asylum in Germany. Most have come from  war-torn countries  such as Syria, Iraq, Afghanistan, Somalia and Eritrea. 
After the German and Eritrean agreed on when and where they would meet, they later set off in her car from Calais to Berlin.
"A friend and I drove the whole night," she said. "Since we hadn't planned it, we were quite worried. We avoided large gas stations and only went to small villages to refill."
When the group finally arrived at her home, she recalled how grateful the man was.
"It was nice to see how the person we took with us was so happy to have found this kind of solidarity," she said.
'Refugee helper'
Chancellor Angela Merkel has said Germany will have taken in more than 800,000 asylum seekers  before the end of the year. In the last couple of days, thousands of refugees have crossed over from Hungary to Austria and then Germany - many received by cheering crowds.








The fluchthelfer promotional poster reads: 'Now become a fluchthelfer and help people have a better future' [Peng Collective]





But not all Germans feel this way. The number of refugees wanting to come to Germany has also evoked hateful reactions. According to the human rights organisation Pro Asyl,  there have been 359 violent attacks against asylum seekers and their homes this year. That is more than double the number in all of 2014.
The German woman described herself as a "fluchthelferin" - translated as a "refugee helper" - a term with roots in Germany's recent past.
Historically, a fluchthelfer - as opposed to a "schlepper" (people smuggler) - is someone who helped people flee from communist East Germany after World War II.
Many of these refugee helpers were consequently awarded the highest German civilian awards in the decades before the fall of the Berlin Wall, and are still perceived as heroes who assisted people to freedom.
A group of activists from the Peng Collective - inspired by the story of the 28-year-old woman and this history of a humanitarian approach towards refugees - set up the  Fluchthelfer.in initiative. It works completely on a volunteer basis, primarily providing civilians and activists with tips on how sneak undocumented people across borders without being caught.
As of Monday the website noted 569 people had already been helped. The site also offers a "starter kit" for volunteers that includes maps of alternative border routes, a "clean phone with a new SIM card" to avoid communications surveillance, even sun visors making it difficult for authorities to see those in the back of vehicles. Most importantly, it offers advice on what to do if stopped by police.
A two-and-a-half minute video on the website is inspired by one of the experiences of the German woman who drove the Calais refugee across the border.
'A safe way'





We want to offer these people a safe way. They don't need risk their lives in the to back of a truck.
Max Thalbach, Peng Collective





Max Thalbach from Peng Collective told Al Jazeera about the legal controversy surrounding the initiative.
"Currently the law sees fluchthelfers  as criminals, but we are confident that history books will acquit us. It's the same with almost all movements of this sort," he explained.
Thalbach, 26, was quick to add that before signing up to be a fluchthelfer, it's crucial to be prepared. 
  Someone caught assisting a person cross European borders without proper documentation can face up to 10 years in jail on charges of  human smuggling. Fines can also be imposed.
"Often the cases are dropped because it is difficult to prove intent. Nevertheless, we set up a  crowdfunding campaign to raise funds to assist with paying legal fees for the fluchthelfers," Thalbach said.
Two fluchthelfers have been charged with human trafficking since the initiative started and are being helped by the fund.
"By criminalising those who help refugees, we are shying away from the actual problem. We do not address why people are forced to take boats or get on trucks in the first place," Thalbach said.
"The European Union is responsible for this situation by closing all its borders to these people. We want to offer these people a safe way. They don't need to risk their lives in the back of a truck."
Currently, Fluchthelfer.in activists are working on the route between Budapest and Vienna by organising shuttle buses to help refugees get to Vienna. 
"We are very happy about the current opening of borders. We hope this remains a permanent state and isn't just an exception," Thalbach told Al Jazeera over the phone from the border between Austria and Hungary.

 RELATED: Germany vows to fight racism after attacks on refugees 

One refugee from North Africa, who currently lives in a camp in Germany, shared his struggles along the arduous route to Europe. "I had to flee my home country because I had problems. My country is not democratic. If you say something wrong, they will catch you; they will put you in prison," he said.
He has now applied for asylum in Germany and is awaiting the decision, and does not want to reveal his name. He said he would have never made it to Germany had it not been for the fluchthelfers who gave him a ride in their car from Italy.
"There are a lot of controls on buses and trains. And sometimes cars are also controlled, but your chances are better," he said. "That's why the help was important."
Travelling by mass transit presents another type of hurdle for the refugees. The Dublin Regulation, controversial in that it places undue pressure on the southern European point-of-entry countries, mandates that asylum seekers apply for asylum in the country through which they first enter the EU. 





  





"If you get caught anywhere on the way, they take your fingerprints, and then it's very difficult for you to apply for asylum anywhere else," explained the young man. 
Fluchthelfer.in helped him to find solace and compassion in Europe, he said.
"I trusted those people. I was very tired because I always had to run, and I never knew what's next. But when I travelled with the Fluchthelfer.in people, it was like travelling with my friends," he said.
"I knew they could still catch us, but it is so much better if you know that people do this because they want to help you." Source: Al Jazeera +++ 
Al Jazeera +06 September 2015 10:13:30 GMT+ 
The European Union foreign ministers meeting in Luxembourg have struggled to identify a unified response to the refugee crisis as thousands of people from war-torn countries continued to stream into Germany via Austria.
The last train carrying an estimated 1,000 refugees pulled into Germany's Munich from Austria at 1:30am local time on Sunday (23:30 GMT), bringing the total to have arrived in the Bavarian capital to about 8,000 in less than two days.
They seemed dazed by the calls of "Welcome to Munich", from the few dozen well-wishers remaining at around midnight, as well as by their determination to thrust chocolate bars, bananas or bread rolls into their hands.





Whoever still thinks that withdrawal from the EU or a barbed wire fence around Austria will solve the problem is wrong.
Johanna Mikl-Leitner, Austrian interior minister






OPINION: Europe's policy did not kill Aylan Kurdi

A similar total is expected to arrive in Munich later on Sunday.
Many of the refugees said they were fleeing the civil war in Syria, while others were from Afghanistan or Iraq.
German interior ministry spokesman Harald Neymanns said Berlin's decision to open its borders to Syrians was an exceptional case for humanitarian reasons. He said Europe's so-called Dublin rules, which require people to apply for asylum in the first EU country they enter, had not been suspended.
"The Dublin rules are still valid and we expect other European Union member states to stick to them," he said.
After days of confrontation and chaos, Hungary deployed more than 100 buses overnight to take thousands of the refugees who had streamed there from southeast Europe to the Austrian frontier. Austria said it had agreed with Germany to allow the refugees access, waiving the asylum rules.
"Every refugee I spoke to was glad they left the horrendous experience they said they had in Hungary these past few days," Al Jazeera's Mohammed Jamjoom, reporting from the Austrian town of Nickelsdorf, said.
"People here were provided with clothing, blankets and tents," he said.
Hungary, the main entry point into Europe's borderless Schengen zone for refugees, has taken a hard-line, vowing to seal its southern frontier with a new, high fence by September 15.
Hungarian officials have portrayed the crisis as a defence of Europe's prosperity, identity and "Christian values" against an influx of mainly Muslim refugees.





  





'Failed policy'
Budapest has been heavily criticised for its position, but the country's foreign minister, Peter Szijjarto, said Hungary should not be blamed for adhering to the EU rules.
A "failed migration policy of the European Union" and "the series of some irresponsible statements made by European politicians" were to blame for the crisis, Szijjarto said.
EU foreign ministers met in Luxembourg on Saturday to brainstorm possible solutions, but the usual diplomatic conviviality unravelled as they failed to agree on any practical steps out of the crisis.







// <![CDATA[
RenderGeneralBCVideo(4466540463001,0,0,330,186, "bcvid_4466540463001");brightcove.createExperiences();
// ]]]] >






Hamsa and her family cross into Austria after desperate journey from Syria






Ministers were especially at odds over proposals for country-by-country quotas to take in asylum seekers.
"Given the challenges facing our German friends as well, all of Europe needs to wake up," Austrian Interior Minister Johanna Mikl-Leitner said.
"Whoever still thinks that withdrawal from the EU or a barbed wire fence around Austria will solve the problem is wrong."
British Finance Minister George Osborne said Europe and the UK must offer asylum to those genuinely fleeing persecution, but must also boost aid, defeat people-smuggling gangs and tackle the Syrian conflict to ease the crisis.
Austrian Chancellor Werner Faymann called on Sunday for an emergency EU summit to resolve the refugee crisis, saying his country's admittance of thousands of refugees crossing from Hungary was just a "temporary" measure.
Pressure to take effective action rose sharply this week after pictures flashed around the world of a drowned three-year-old  Syrian-Kurdish boy, Aylan Kurdi, washed up on the beach of a Turkish resort, personalising the collective tragedy of the refugees.Source: Al Jazeera and agencies +++ 
Al Jazeera +06 September 2015 10:41:08 GMT+ 
Pope Francis has called on every European parish, religious community, monastery and sanctuary to take in one refugee family, as thousands of people from war-torn countries continued to stream into Germany via Austria.
The pope said on Sunday the Vatican would open its doors to two refugee families, but provided few details as he addressed tens of thousands of people in St Peter's Square.
Francis said it was not enough to say, "Have courage, hang in there," to the hundreds of thousands of refugees who are on the march towards what he called "life's hope".
He called on every Catholic parish, convent, monastery and sanctuary in Europe to shelter a family, and asked bishops throughout Europe to urge their dioceses to do the same.
His comments came after about 8,000 refugees arrived in Munich over the past two days, with a further 8,000 expected to arrive on Sunday.
They seemed dazed by the calls of "Welcome to Munich", from the few dozen well-wishers remaining at around midnight, as well as by their determination to thrust chocolate bars, bananas or bread rolls into their hands.





Whoever still thinks that withdrawal from the EU or a barbed wire fence around Austria will solve the problem is wrong.
Johanna Mikl-Leitner, Austrian interior minister






OPINION: Europe's policy did not kill Aylan Kurdi

Many of the refugees said they were fleeing the civil war in Syria, while others were from Afghanistan or Iraq.
German interior ministry spokesman Harald Neymanns said Berlin's decision to open its borders to Syrians was an exceptional case for humanitarian reasons. He said Europe's so-called Dublin rules, which require people to apply for asylum in the first EU country they enter, had not been suspended.
"The Dublin rules are still valid and we expect other European Union member states to stick to them," he said.
After days of confrontation and chaos, Hungary deployed more than 100 buses overnight to take thousands of the refugees who had streamed there from southeast Europe to the Austrian frontier. Austria said it had agreed with Germany to allow the refugees access, waiving the asylum rules.
"Every refugee I spoke to was glad they left the horrendous experience they said they had in Hungary these past few days," Al Jazeera's Mohammed Jamjoom, reporting from the Austrian town of Nickelsdorf, said.
"People here were provided with clothing, blankets and tents," he said.
Hungary, the main entry point into Europe's borderless Schengen zone for refugees, has taken a hard-line, vowing to seal its southern frontier with a new, high fence by September 15.
Hungarian officials have portrayed the crisis as a defence of Europe's prosperity, identity and "Christian values" against an influx of mainly Muslim refugees.





  





'Failed policy'
Budapest has been heavily criticised for its position, but the country's foreign minister, Peter Szijjarto, said Hungary should not be blamed for adhering to the EU rules.
A "failed migration policy of the European Union" and "the series of some irresponsible statements made by European politicians" were to blame for the crisis, Szijjarto said.
EU foreign ministers met in Luxembourg on Saturday to brainstorm possible solutions, but the usual diplomatic conviviality unravelled as they failed to agree on any practical steps out of the crisis.







// <![CDATA[
RenderGeneralBCVideo(4466540463001,0,0,330,186, "bcvid_4466540463001");brightcove.createExperiences();
// ]]]] >






Hamsa and her family cross into Austria after desperate journey from Syria






Ministers were especially at odds over proposals for country-by-country quotas to take in asylum seekers.
"Given the challenges facing our German friends as well, all of Europe needs to wake up," Austrian Interior Minister Johanna Mikl-Leitner said.
"Whoever still thinks that withdrawal from the EU or a barbed wire fence around Austria will solve the problem is wrong."
British Finance Minister George Osborne said Europe and the UK must offer asylum to those genuinely fleeing persecution, but must also boost aid, defeat people-smuggling gangs and tackle the Syrian conflict to ease the crisis.
Austrian Chancellor Werner Faymann called on Sunday for an emergency EU summit to resolve the refugee crisis, saying his country's admittance of thousands of refugees crossing from Hungary was just a "temporary" measure.
Pressure to take effective action rose sharply this week after pictures flashed around the world of a drowned three-year-old  Syrian-Kurdish boy, Aylan Kurdi, washed up on the beach of a Turkish resort, personalising the collective tragedy of the refugees.Source: Al Jazeera and agencies +++ 
Al Jazeera +06 September 2015 04:39:44 GMT+ 
More to this story

When it comes to refugees, terminology matters
France: Where refugees go to avoid 'the jungle' 

Thousands of exhausted refugees have arrived in the German city of Munich after boarding special trains from Austria's Vienna.
The refugees, who spent the past few days trapped in Hungary, started arriving in Munich early on Saturday morning and the trains continued to arrive throughout the day.
The refugees were being taken to an accommodation centre for registration but could be sent to shelters elsewhere in Germany in coming days.








A refugee boy tries on a security officer's cap after arriving in Germany [Reuters]





Al Jazeera's Rob Reynolds, reporting from outside the Munich train station, said the refugees were relieved to have arrived in Germany, many with just the shirts on their backs, and had been warmly welcomed by cheering Germans.
"People here have been handing out soft toys, teddy bears for the kids, and you can see the relief on their faces that at least they have arrived safely," our correspondent said.
Austria's interior ministry arranged the transport to Germany after the refugees were bussed to the border by the Hungarian government, which gave up trying to stop them under pressure from the sheer numbers reaching its frontiers.

Report: Refugee family's baby dies on Greek island

The ministry said about 4,000 people had arrived in Austria on Saturday and the number was expected to reach 10,000 by the end of the day.
Once they reached the Austrian border, the refugees, many of them from Syria, were whisked by train and shuttle bus to Vienna, where many said they still wanted to continue on to Germany.
After days of confrontation and chaos, Hungary's government deployed the buses to take more than 1,000 refugees, including disabled people and family groups, who had set off by foot on Friday from Budapest down the main highway to Vienna.
Austria said it had agreed with Germany that it would allow the refugees access, waiving the rules of an asylum system brought to breaking point by Europe's worst refugee crisis in decades.
The UN High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) praised the two countries for their "political leadership based on humanitarian values".
'Refugees welcome'
Wrapped in blankets and sleeping bags against the rain, long lines of weary refugees, many carrying small, sleeping children, climbed off buses on the Hungarian side of the border and walked into Austria, receiving fruit and water from aid workers. Waiting Austrians held signs that read, "Refugees welcome".








// <![CDATA[
RenderGeneralBCVideo(4465397542001,0,0,260,175, "bcvid_4465397542001");brightcove.createExperiences();
// ]]]] >






Tension rises on Greek island overwhelmed by refugees





"Because of today's emergency situation on the Hungarian border, Austria and Germany agree in this case to a continuation of the refugees' journey into their countries," Austrian Chancellor Werner Faymann said on his Facebook page.
For days, Hungary had cancelled all trains going west to Austria and Germany, saying it is obliged under EU rules to register all asylum seekers, who should remain there until their requests are processed.
Many refugees refused, determined to get to the richer countries of northern and Western Europe, mainly Germany.
"The government has not commented on why they changed their mind over the issue yet," Al Jazeera's Mohammed Jamjoom, reporting from the highway leading to the Hungarian-Austrian border, said on Budapest's decision to let refugees go to Austria.
Al Jazeera's Andrew Simmons, reporting from outside Budapest, said some people were worried the police were luring them into a trap with the buses but they were so exhausted after hours of walking that they boarded them.





  





Traffic built up on the highway as cars crossing the border were being searched as a result of measures taken after dozens of refugees were found dead on a truck last week.
Meanwhile, European foreign ministers and officials gathered in Luxembourg on Saturday to discuss the massive influx of refugees in countries across Europe. The informal meeting finished with the countries remaining deeply divided on compulsory quotas for refugee settlement.
The European Commission will meet next week to consider an expanded scheme to relocate refugees from Hungary, Greece and Italy according to quotas.
German Chancellor Angela Merkel said on Saturday she was still aiming to balance her country's budget, despite an expected 800,000 refugees expected to arrive in Germany this year at a cost of $11bn.








The Hungarian government deployed buses to ferry refugees to the Austrian border [AP]







Hungary has emerged as the main entry point for refugees reaching the EU by land across the Balkan Peninsula. 

More than 140,000 people have been recorded entering Hungary so far this year through the EU's external border with Serbia, where Hungary's government is building a 3.5m wall. 









 




Source: Al Jazeera And Agencies +++ 
Al Jazeera +06 September 2015 13:46:28 GMT+ 
Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has announced the start of construction of a fence along Israel's border with Jordan after calls for Tel Aviv to take in Syrian refugees.
Netanyahu said on Sunday that he would not allow Israel to be "submerged by a wave of illegal migrants and terrorist activists".
"Israel is not indifferent to the human tragedy of Syrian and African refugees... but Israel is a small country, very small, without demographic or geographic depth. That is why we must control our borders", he said at the weekly cabinet meeting according to his office.
The announcement came a day after Isaac Herzog, Israeli opposition leader, said on Saturday that Israel should take in Syrian refugees, recalling the plight of Jews who sought refuge from past conflicts.
Mahmoud Abbas, the Palestinian president, also called for Israel to allow Palestinians from Syria's refugee camps to travel to the Palestinian territories, whose external borders are controlled by Tel Aviv.
The series of fences
The new 30km fence will be a continuation of a 240km barrier that already runs along the Egyptian border. 
Israel also has a fence that runs along the Syrian frontier through the Israeli-occupied Golan Heights and through the occupied West Bank.
Netanyahu said further barrier work was being planned.
"We will as much as possible surround Israel's borders with a sophisticated security fence that will allow us to control our borders," he said.
Official figures show 45,000 refugees are in Israel, almost all from Eritrea and Sudan. Most of those not in detention live in poor areas of southern Tel Aviv, where there have been several protests against them.
Rights groups say thousands of African asylum-seekers have been coerced into "voluntary" departures.Source: AFP +++ 
Al Jazeera +06 September 2015 03:52:19 GMT+ 
John Kerry, the US secretary of state, has expressed US concern over reports of Russia's enhanced military build-up in Syria in a telephone call with his Russian counterpart, according to the US state department.
The phone call came a day after media reports quoted US officials as describing an increase in Russian military activity in Syria, expanding the country's support for Syrian President Bashar al-Assad.
"The secretary made clear that if such reports were accurate, these actions could further escalate the conflict, lead to greater loss of innocent life, increase refugee flows and risk confrontation with the anti-ISIL coalition operating in Syria," the state department said on Saturday, referring to the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant.
It said Kerry and Sergey Lavrov, the Russian foreign minister, agreed that discussions on the Syrian conflict would continue this month in New York, where the UN General Assembly meets.
Quoting unidentified Obama administration officials, the New York Times said Russia has dispatched a military advance team to Syria and has sent prefabricated housing units for hundreds of people to a Syrian airfield and delivered a portable air traffic control station there.

OPINION: We're missing the point about Syrian refugees

Assad's ancestral home
Some US officials said the temporary housing suggested Russia could deploy up to 1,000 advisers or other military personnel to the airfield that serves Latakia, Syria's principal port city that is near the Assad family's ancestral home, the New York Times reported.
It said officials see no indications Russia intends to deploy significant ground forces, but may be preparing the airfield as a base for transporting military supplies or a launching pad for air strikes supporting Assad.
The Los Angeles Times reported US intelligence has gathered evidence of possible military housing from satellite reconnaissance photos.








 





In recent weeks, there has been a flurry of diplomatic consultations to try to find a way out of the crisis, including a meeting in Doha, Qatar, on August 3 between the top US, Russian, and Saudi diplomats.
The Saudi and Iranian foreign ministers were later received separately in Moscow, as were representatives of various Syrian opposition groups.
Russia, which has been a bulwark of military and diplomatic support to the Assad government, is promoting an expanded coalition against ISIL that includes countries of the region as well as the regular Syrian army.
President Barack Obama for his part received Saudi King Salman on Friday for talks dominated by Syria. They advocate a political solution that would include Assad's departure from power.
Suweida violence





  





On the ground in Syria, anti-government violence erupted on Saturday in a southern province that had largely stayed on the sidelines of the country's civil war.
The violence in Suweida province, a stronghold of the Druze minority sect, followed the killing of a prominent religious leader in rare explosions on Friday that claimed the lives of at least 25 others, activists and pro-government media said.
Rioters holding the government responsible for the death of Sheikh Wahid al-Balous destroyed the statue of late Syrian President Hafez al-Assad and besieged security offices, the Britain-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights and other activist groups said.








 





Balous was a prominent critic of Assad and had called on youth in Suweida to refuse to serve in the military.
He was also a critic of ISIL fighters who have taken over a third of the country and are fuelling the civil war that has killed more than 250,000 people and wounded more than one million.
Balous died in one of two consecutive car bomb explosions, including one near the National Hospital in Suweida.
The Syrian Observatory said the death toll rose on Saturday to 37, including six security personnel killed in clashes with rioters.
Conflicting toll figures
Suweida had witnessed large rallies in the days before the explosions against the failure of the government to provide basic services. Activists reported that there was no internet service for the past few days.
Syria's official news agency and other activist groups put the death toll from the blasts at 26. There was no immediate claim of responsibly for the bombings.
Some of Balous' supporters said in a statement they would expel security forces from Suweida, which until now has largely stayed out of the fighting.
Elsewhere in Syria, at least 47 fighters have been killed in battles between ISIL and rebel groups, reports say.
The fighting was centred around the rebel-held town of Marea near the Turkish border.
Marea is within a proposed safe zone put forward by Turkey last month. If rebels lose the town, it will make it harder to clear ISIL from the area.Source: Al Jazeera and agencies +++ 
Al Jazeera +05 September 2015 15:23:04 GMT+ 
More to this story

Finnish PM offers his home to asylum seekers
When it comes to refugees, terminology matters
France: Where refugees go to avoid 'the jungle' 
Faith in humanity should be restored

Thousands of exhausted refugees have streamed into Austria after being bussed to the border by the Hungarian government, which gave up trying to stop them under pressure from the sheer numbers reaching its frontiers.
About 4,000 refugees have arrived in Austria so far, the country's interior ministry said, and the number is expected to reach 10,000 throughout Saturday.
Rain-soaked refugees, many of them from Syria, were whisked by train and shuttle bus to Vienna, where many said they were resolved to continue on to Germany.
German police later said the first 450 of up to 10,000 refugees expected on Saturday had arrived on a special train in Munich from Austria.
After days of confrontation and chaos, Hungary's right-wing government deployed dozens of buses to take refugees from Budapest and pick up over 1,000 who had set off doggedly by foot on Friday down the main highway to Vienna.
Austria said it had agreed with Germany that it would allow the refugees access, waiving the rules of an asylum system brought to breaking point by Europe's worst refugee crisis in decades.
'Refugees welcome'
Wrapped in blankets and sleeping bags against the rain, long lines of weary refugees, many carrying small, sleeping children, climbed off buses on the Hungarian side of the border and walked into Austria, receiving fruit and water from aid workers. Waiting Austrians held signs that read, "Refugees welcome".








// <![CDATA[
RenderGeneralBCVideo(4465397542001,0,0,260,175, "bcvid_4465397542001");brightcove.createExperiences();
// ]]]] >






Tension rises on Greek island overwhelmed by refugees





"Because of today's emergency situation on the Hungarian border, Austria and Germany agree in this case to a continuation of the refugees' journey into their countries," Austrian Chancellor Werner Faymann said on his Facebook page.
For days, Hungary has cancelled all trains going west to Austria and Germany, saying it is obliged under EU rules to register all asylum seekers, who should remain there until their requests are processed.
Many refugees refused, determined to get to the richer countries of northern and Western Europe, mainly Germany.
"The government has not commented on why they changed their mind over the issue yet," Al Jazeera’s Mohammed Jamjoom, reporting from the highway leading to the Hungarian-Austrian border, said on Budapest’s decision to let refugees go to Austria.
Traffic built up on the highway as cars crossing the border were being searched as a result of measures taken after dozens of refugees were found dead on a truck last week.
Meanwhile, European foreign ministers and officials gathered in Luxembourg on Saturday to discuss the massive influx of migrants and refugees in countries across Europe.








The Hungarian government deployed buses to ferry refugees to the Austrian border [AP]







Hungary has emerged as the main entry point for refugees reaching the EU by land across the Balkan Peninsula.


 In Pictures: A night at the train station 

More than 140,000 people have been recorded entering Hungary so far this year through the EU's external border with Serbia, where Hungary's government is building an 3.5 metres high wall. Countless others may have entered without registering.
Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orban, one of Europe's most outspoken critics of mass immigration, took to the airwaves to issue sharp warnings that Europeans could become a minority on their own continent.








 




Source: Al Jazeera And Agencies +++ 
Al Jazeera +05 September 2015 13:06:36 GMT+ 
There are stirrings of a popular backlash against the negligence shown by many European governments towards the thousands of desperate people who have fled their homes. It seems to have taken the devastating photograph of three-year-old Syrian boy Aylan Kurdi on a Turkish beach, where his body was washed ashore this week.







// <![CDATA[
RenderGeneralBCVideo(4460311770001,0,0,330,186, "bcvid_4460311770001");brightcove.createExperiences();
// ]]]] >





Photos of drowned Syrian boy spark outcry





Thousands of women, children and men have died en route to Europe this year. Last week, over 100 people drowned when a boat capsized soon after departing the Libyan coast, while in Austria, 71 bodies were found in a truck.
It is scandalous and unacceptable that it took so long and so many deaths for a wake-up call. Underpinning this negligence is a created sense of fear that could be summed up in the following: What will these migrants bring to our communities? Who are these "other" people?
There are energetic but misplaced sentiments about fence building, repatriation and the economics of migration.
A door to a safe haven
My overriding feeling is one of humanity remembered.
In 1978, I ran away from the brutal dictatorship of Idi Amin in Uganda to the United Kingdom via Kenya. My family and I chose Britain, knowing then - as I do now - that this was a country with a door open to people like me. As I arrived in the UK, this black, 18-year-old African refugee girl was not deported. I got the chance to stay.
This was a European country where I safely had a chance to fulfil my potential. I studied at the University of Manchester and, years later, have been brought full circle back to the UK to serve a great movement, which started in the UK, called Oxfam. 
My story might have turned out very differently if a door to a safe haven was closed to me forty years ago. That memory quickly turns now into a calling.

RELATED: We're missing the point about Syrian refugees

Today, we are in the midst of a global and complex displacement crisis. To view this global crisis solely through the lens of Europe is to miss the bigger picture.
According to the UN figures, 59.5 million people fled from their homes at the end of 2014 - an increase of 63 percent compared to a decade ago - and the highest number since World War II.
The majority of displaced people are as young as or younger than I was when I fled Uganda for the UK.
Oxfam is well-placed to connect the dots between the sources and the destinations of displaced people. This helps us understand the reasons for displacement and to strive for solutions.
We witness the terrible human suffering that every day forces people into exile. We know this well because we work in nine of the top ten source countries for refugees. 
Preventable conflicts
It is clear to us that the broken politics of conflict weigh most heavily on forced migration. The UN recently found that the majority of people arriving in Europe by sea were fleeing from war, conflict or persecution - half of them from Syria and Afghanistan.
Yet, conflict is preventable. Critical questions must be asked of international political leaders who are initiating or prolonging these conflicts but are unable or unwilling to take responsibility for their humanitarian consequences.





Something terrible is happening when political leaders and the media are able to drip disdain on unspeakable human suffering. Without this sense of common humanity, it is no wonder that policy interventions are so hollow.
 





Secondly, funding is central to meeting the day-to-day needs of those who have fled. In the short-term, this means aid for desperately underfunded refugee programmes; as I write this, only 37 percent of total umbrella funding for the Syrian crisis has been met.
In the long-term, it crucially means investing in lasting improvements that tackle the root causes of conflict, inequality, poverty and climate change, rather than building more fences and walls.
Balance is integral - developing countries are currently bearing the brunt by hosting 86 percent of the world's refugees. This puts Europe's dilemmas into sharp context.
Europe's infrastructure is not at risk of falling apart because 340,000 people have sought haven here this year - they represent only around one-half of one percent of the EU population of 500 million.
While Europe squabbled over the resettlement of 20,000 refugees earlier this year, Turkey single-handedly was hosting well over 1.5 million. In Lebanon, a quarter of the population are now refugees, taking the country's infrastructure and socioeconomic fabric to a breaking-point.
This is why we are calling for a commitment from rich countries to offer international protection to just five percent of Syrian refugees - approximately 200,000 people.
Effective measures
People who are "forcibly displaced", such as refugees, importantly take centre stage in what we are seeing now. Yet, in our view, this does not in any way lessen the palpable plight of economic migrants who risk their lives fleeing from poverty or inequality.
The EU migration policy must place saving lives and protecting people as its top priority - regardless of where they have come from and why.

RELATED: Europe's policy did not kill Aylan Kurdi

The warnings of the potential consequences of closing the Mare Nostrum programme initially went unheeded. After an estimated 800 people had drowned in April 2015, the EU reacted by tripling its resources in the Mediterranean, and more than 50,000 lives have since been saved as a result.
This underlines the effectiveness and need for such operations. We believe that Europe has a responsibility to ensure that the basic humanitarian needs of migrants - including refugees - are met and that their rights respected.
The value of human life
What troubles me most, however, is an anti-migrant language that seems to place a hierarchy on the value of human life, leaving migrants as unequal bystanders.
Something terrible is happening when political leaders and the media are able to drip disdain on unspeakable human suffering. Without this sense of common humanity, it is no wonder that policy interventions are so hollow.
At Oxfam, we believe - without blemish - that all human lives are of equal value and full of potential. A human life crossing the Mediterranean or through the Balkans carries no less value than a human life does in the wake of an earthquake or war.





  





We believe this is a time for solidarity with migrants. Our main call is to people and to civil societies everywhere to join us in humanising the voices of migrants around the world and restore our collective humanity at all levels of society.
Share their human stories, promote the campaigns of humanitarian and civil society organisations, and stand firmly against any suggestions that undermine the protection of human lives.

The humanity we crave - I know from my own story - has not disappeared and is not out of reach - the far more tragic experiences faced by so many migrants today call for nothing less.
It is right to say that we must bring peace and security to the countries which are the primary sources for migration, but to use that as an excuse to close your doors is cowardice.
Winnie Byanyima is a grassroots activist, human rights advocate, senior international public servant, world-recognised expert on women's rights, and currently the executive director of Oxfam International.
The views expressed in this article are the author's own and do not necessarily reflect Al Jazeera's editorial policy.
Source: Al Jazeera +++ 
Al Jazeera +04 September 2015 00:43:44 GMT+ 
What more can the US do to help Syrians displaced by their country's civil war?
The US sits some 10,745km from Syria, far from the refugee crisis now playing out in Europe.
Obama administration officials say they are horrified by what they see, but insist they cannot be the ones to swoop in and make the situation better.
That said, the US has been involved in the humanitarian response from the early days of Syria's civil war.
Temporary Protected Status
On March 29, 2012, about a year into the Syrian civil war, the US Department of Homeland Security announced that Syrians living in the US could apply for Temporary Protected Status (also called TPS).
It was an acknowledgement that it was too dangerous inside Syria for anyone in the US to try to go home.
Syrians living in the US since March 29, 2012, could apply for permission to live and work in the US until September 30, 2013.








Obama administration officials insist they cannot be the ones to swoop in and make the unfolding refugee crisis in Europe better [AP]





With no end to the war in sight, the US extended that residency period several times.
The new deadline is September 30, 2016. (It is expected that at some point - ideally, when the civil war ends - the US will terminate the TPS programme for Syrians, and they will return to their homeland.)
All those who apply for TPS must undergo what the US calls a "thorough security check" before getting the residency and work permits.
Syrians who get TPS have to stay in the US; if they want to travel internationally, they have to get the US government's permission first or risk losing their TPS privileges.
As of January 2015, Department of Homeland Security said, an estimated 5,000 Syrian persons are living in the US as part of the TPS programme.
It estimated that another 5,000 Syrian citizens were eligible to apply for TPS through July 5, 2015.
It is not clear yet whether all who were eligible applied. No new application dates are currently scheduled.
Refugee admissions
The US government says that since 1975, its US Refugee Admissions Program (USRAP) has admitted more than three million people from around the world.
Right now, in 2015, the number of Syrians displaced both within and outside their country is estimated between nine and 12 million.








The number of Syrians displaced both within and outside their country is estimated to be between nine and 12 million [EPA]





Clearly, the US is not going to admit more persons from one country's civil war than it has from all conflicts in the past 40 years.
So what are the reasons for the low refugee admission numbers, and can the US - should the US - try to increase them?
First, a bit of background.
Refugees who want to move to the US or to any other country have to go through the UN High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR).
UNHCR makes referrals, and the US government then interviews candidates for resettlement. (The vast majority of those who apply will not be accepted - because there are many more applicants than spots available. More on that in a moment.)
Between 2011 and 2014, 201 Syrian refugees were resettled in the US.
So far in 2015, 651 people have been admitted, and the state department says it hopes another 1150 persons can be admitted by September 30, for a total of 1,800 refugees in Fiscal Year 2015.
But that is a fraction of what UNHCR would like to see.
UN's appeal
In 2014, UNHCR called on countries to accept 100,000 refugees by the end of 2015, and another 30,000 refugees by the end of 2016.
The expectation was that the US would try to accept as many as half of those refugees - up to 65,000 men, women, and children.
Human rights groups and some members of Congress say the US has the capacity and the moral duty to do so.








Some US legislators have complained about the potential of admitting members of ISIL, al-Qaeda or other enemy groups [AP]





Here's the problem: The US has an annual cap on refugee admissions.
The president sets the annual number of refugees - but only after discussions with federal agencies and members of Congress.
For 2015, that figure is 70,000 refugees worldwide, with persons coming from every part of the globe. (It's not clear yet how many persons the Obama administration will propose to admit in 2016.)
The US would either have to dramatically increase the total number of refugees it will admit, or deny admissions to everyone who is not from Syria.
US officials say they cannot deny sanctuary from people in other trouble spots.
Even if the Obama administration wanted to admit every Syrian who qualified for refugee status, persuading Congress to go along would be difficult.
Anti-immigrant mood
The anti-immigrant mood in the US is pronounced, and some in Congress have already balked at regularising the status of an estimated 11 million undocumented residents, largely from Central and South America.
Some legislators have also complained about the potential of admitting members of ISIL, al-Qaeda or other enemy groups with any increase in Syrian refugee processing.








Even if Obama wanted to admit every Syrian who qualified for refugee status, persuading Congress to go along would be difficult [Reuters]





Meanwhile, human rights groups are criticising the Department of Homeland Security for not screening refugees quickly enough.
Right now, it is taking about 18 to 24 months to vet applicants.
US officials say they have to be careful not to jeopardise the country's security by letting in potentially dangerous people.
They also say that trying to verify Syrian refugees' information is very difficult because of the civil war.
US officials say they have already spent more than $4bn since 2011 to help Syrians escaping their country's civil war. But they insist the US cannot let everyone in.
They say the US goal, and the international community's goal, is ending the civil war and making it safe for Syrians to go home again.








 




Source: Al Jazeera +++ 
Al Jazeera +04 September 2015 06:51:56 GMT+ 
More to this story

When it comes to refugees, terminology matters
Police block refugees from Hungary train station
Thousands of refugees arrive in Vienna and Munich
France: Where refugees go to avoid 'the jungle' 
Hungary: A night of protest at the train station

Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orban has said that his country does not want to take in large numbers of Muslims, in defence of Hungary's response to the surge in refugees trying to enter the country.
"I think we have a right to decide that we do not want a large number of Muslim people in our country," Orban told journalists outside the EU headquarters at Brussels.
"We do not like the consequences," he said, referring to the country's 150-year history of Ottoman rule during the 16th and 17th centuries.
Orban said those fleeing conflict in countries such as Syria should not try to cross into Hungary, as he defended the country's decision to erect a fence along its border.
"Please don't come... It's risky to come. We can't guarantee that you will be accepted," Orban said in Brussels, adding that it would not be humane or morally right to "falsify" people's dreams. 







// <![CDATA[
RenderGeneralBCVideo(4458553125001, 0, 0, 330, 186, "bcvid_4458553125001");
                            brightcove.createExperiences();
// ]]]] >





   Refugees detained on Austria-Hungary border 





"We Hungarians are full of fear, people in Europe are full of fear because they see that the European leaders, among them the prime ministers, are not able to control the situation," Orban said.
His comments came as refugees who boarded a train bound for the Austrian border clashed with Hungarian police as they were forcefully unloaded and taken to a refugee camp. 
Clinging to railway tracks
Thousands of refugees had been sleeping rough outside the Budapest train station as police blocked them from entering for two days.

In Pictures: A night of protest at the train station 

After they were eventually let in on Thursday morning, a packed train departed bound for Sopron, a town near the Austrian border.





  





But Hungarian police stopped the train before its destination, with police forcing refugees off and directing them onto buses to take them to a refugee camp, state news agency MTI reported.
Some families clung to railway tracks after trying to run away from police.
About 50 riot police were lined up as a replacement train allowed non-refugee passengers to continue their journey, Reuters reported.
Orban's chief of staff said police would stick to the EU's Schengen rules and make all checks needed on refugees travelling on domestic trains towards the country's western border.
Hungary has been widely criticised for its way of handling the flow of refugees to Europe.
A fence on the border with Serbia is one of several measures under way to make it more difficult for refugees to enter and stay in Hungary. The government is also tightening asylum laws, introducing penalties for illegal border-crossing, and planning to close permanent refugee camps.  

 Why Al Jazeera will not say Mediterranean 'migrants' 

EU President Donald Tusk, meanwhile, warned that divisions between western member states and their newer eastern partners were complicating efforts to solve the deepening refugee crisis.
"There is a divide ... between the east and the west of the EU. Some member states are thinking about containing the wave of migration, symbolised by the Hungarian [border] fence," Tusk said.Source: Al Jazeera and agencies +++ 
Al Jazeera +04 September 2015 11:41:17 GMT+ 
A standoff at a train station between refugees and Hungarian riot police continues for  a second day  as hundreds refuse to go to a refugee centre.
Mainly Syrian and Afghan refugees on Friday remain on and around a train in the town of Bicske which is located 30km west of Budapest.
"They want to go to other countries, particularly Germany. They do not want to stay in Hungary," Al Jazeera's Mohammed Jamjoom reported from the scene of the standoff.
"They are shouting 'No food, no water' as they are in need of supplies. They are also holding signs saying, 'No camp, no Hungary, freedom train'," our correspondent said.

One #refugee tells me he narrowly escaped barrel bombs, adding, "If I had known what I would face in #Hungary, I wouldn't have left #Syria"
— Mohammed Jamjoom (@MIJamjoom) September 3, 2015

Meanwhile, Hungarian police said on Friday that they temporarily shut the Roszke border crossing with Serbia, after 300 migrants escaped from a nearby refugee camp.

OPINION: Europe's policy did not kill Aylan KurdiSeparately, hundreds of migrants have started walking from Budapest's eastern railway station, saying they are heading to Austria, a Reuters news agency photographer reported from the station.

Calls for a unified European response to the refugee crisis are growing stronger, as the Budapest government stays in defence of Hungary's response to the surge in refugees trying to enter the country.
The parliament in Hungary is scheduled to meet on Friday and Monday in two sessions to discuss new laws on migrants and refugees.







// <![CDATA[
RenderGeneralBCVideo(4455408703001, 0, 0, 260, 175, "bcvid_4455408703001");
                            brightcove.createExperiences();
// ]]]] >






Inside Story - Refugees and Europe's dilemma






The EU's foreign ministers are also holding talks in Luxembourg, where the refugee crisis is high on the agenda.
Hungary has been widely criticised for its way of handling the flow of refugees to Europe.
A fence on the border with Serbia is one of several measures under way to make it more difficult for refugees to enter and stay in Hungary. 
Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orban said on Thursday that his country did not want to take in large numbers of Muslims.
"I think we have a right to decide that we do not want a large number of Muslim people in our country," Orban told journalists outside the EU headquarters in Brussels.
 Europe is facing a huge influx on all sides, with more than 350,000 people crossing the Mediterranean in flimsy boats this year alone, according to the International Organization for Migration. 





  





Meanwhile, the head of the UN refugee agency, Antonio Guterres, said the EU's response to the refugee crisis will be a "defining moment" for the bloc, warning that a divided EU would benefit only smugglers and traffickers.
The EU needs to help more refugees enter legally, provide about 200,000 relocation places, according to a preliminary estimate, and support countries under pressure such as Greece, Hungary and Italy, he said in a statement on Friday.








Refugees on Friday remain on and around a train in the town of Bicske [Al Jazeera] +++ 
Al Jazeera +04 September 2015 13:47:52 GMT+ 
Russian President Vladimir Putin has said that Syria's Bashar al-Assad is ready to hold snap parliamentary elections and allow a "healthy" opposition to share power.
The Syrian president "is in agreement with" holding elections for parliament, as well as establishing contacts with the so-called healthy opposition and bringing them into the leadership, Putin told reporters on the sidelines of the Eastern Economic Forum in Vladivostok on Friday.
"Overall there is an understanding that the unification of forces in the fight against terrorism should proceed in parallel with some sort of political process within Syria," Putin said, according to a Kremlin statement.








// <![CDATA[
RenderGeneralBCVideo(4375900480001,0,0,330,186, "bcvid_4375900480001");brightcove.createExperiences();
// ]]]] >






Syria's Assad admits army is struggling for manpower





"This is primarily an issue of Syria's internal development. We are not imposing anything, but we are ready to promote this internal Syrian dialogue," Putin said.
Putin did not elaborate on what a "healthy" opposition was supposed to mean.
Russia has been a close ally of the Syrian government since the Soviet era and has staunchly opposed foreign calls to oust Assad in the effort to restore peace to the country.
Moscow wants the US-led coalition carrying out air strikes on the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) group's positions to coordinate with the Syrian and Iraqi armies and moderate anti-Assad rebel groups on the ground, as well as Kurdish forces.
Assad's enemies have refused to cooperate with Damascus, fearing that would help legitimise his rule in Syria, where the west and Gulf states say he is part of the problem, not the solution, and must go.
A flurry of recent high-level diplomatic contacts have so far failed to yield a breakthrough on the key point of contention in the conflict.
"If it's impossible today to organise joint work directly on the battle field between all those countries interested in fighting terrorism, it's indispensable to at least establish some sort of coordination between them," Putin said.
Putin told reporters that Syrian refugees were mainly fleeing ISIL, which has gained large swaths of Syria and Iraq over the past year.
"People are running away not from the regime of Bashar al-Assad, but from the Islamic State, which has conquered significant territory in Syria and Iraq," Putin said at the forum.Source: Agencies +++ 
Al Jazeera +04 September 2015 05:57:01 GMT+ 
More to this story

When it comes to refugees, terminology matters
Police block refugees from Hungary train station
'If these images don't change Europe, what will?'

The Bayern Munich football club will donate $1.11m to help refugees and set up a training camp for those arriving in Munich, as the number of people arriving in the city continues to rise.
Thousands have crossed into Germany via Hungary and Austria with Munich's train station one of the main points of entry.
The plight of those fleeing conflict in their countries such as Syria, as well as people from elsewhere escaping poverty, has polarised opinion in Europe.
"FC Bayern see it as its social responsibility to help those fleeing and suffering children, women and men, to support them and accompany them in Germany," Bayern CEO Karl-Heinz Rummenigge said in a statement.
Bayern's youth academy will set up the training camp for kids, in conjunction with the city of Munich. Apart from regular training, it will also offer meals and German language classes.







// <![CDATA[
RenderGeneralBCVideo(4449899680001,0,0,330,186, "bcvid_4449899680001");brightcove.createExperiences();
// ]]]] >






Austria makes arrests over refugee deaths






The senior team will be accompanied by refugee children when they enter the pitch for their next home game against Augsburg on September 12, with the club also planning a friendly with $1.11m of revenue going towards helping refugees.
"FC Bayern is taking a stand and I am happy about the club's involvement," Munich mayor Dieter Reiter said.
"That is why I happily approved the city's support."
Germany expects to receive 800,000 asylum seekers this year, four times more than in 2014, Germany's Labour and Social Affairs Minister Andrea Nahles said on Thursday.

OPINION: Europe's policy did not kill Aylan Kurdi

Banners with "Refugees welcome" or "Welcome to Germany" were visible in almost every Bundesliga match last week while many teams have also invited refugees to watch their games from the stands.
The German football association (DFB) on Wednesday issued a video message condemning any attacks on refugees or on their accommodation in Germany as well as any form of xenophobia.
A friendly game against a "Refugees United" team next week is also planned with DFB employees.
'Germany, thank you!'
Many of the refugees arriving in Vienna's railway station earlier this week immediately raced to board trains heading to Germany, as policemen looked on passively, preferring not to intervene, witnesses said.







// <![CDATA[
RenderGeneralBCVideo(4460311770001,0,0,330,186, "bcvid_4460311770001");brightcove.createExperiences();
// ]]]] >






Photos of drowned Syrian boy spark outcry






Refugees cheered and chanted "Germany, thank you!" as they saw a welcome sign held up by local people at Munich Central Station.
Police said around 500 refugees, mainly from the Middle East, were on the train. They were to be transported by bus to camps where they will be registered.
Germany has taken in more asylum seekers than any other European Union country.
German Chancellor Angela Merkel on Monday called for other EU nations to do more to help deal with this year's influx of refugees.Source: Al Jazeera and agencies +++ 
Al Jazeera +03 September 2015 19:36:47 GMT+ 
More to this story

Hungarian PM: We don't want more Muslims
Bodies of drowned Syrian refugees found on Turkey beach

The UK is to accept thousands more refugees from camps based on the Syrian border following criticism that it has not been doing its share, British newspapers are reporting.
The reports said government officials were on Thursday working on a plan to bring in thousands more people, but not those already in Europe.
The Guardian reported that British Prime Minister David Cameron did not want to encourage more people to make the perilous journey across the Mediterranean Sea to reach the UK.
The move comes amid pressure on the British government from members of the public to end the refugee crisis that has seen thousands of people die trying to flee the war in Syria.
More than 260,000 people have signed a petition demanding that the government increase its assistance.







// <![CDATA[
RenderGeneralBCVideo(4460311770001, 0, 0, , , "bcvid_4460311770001");
                            brightcove.createExperiences();
// ]]]] >






Photos of drowned Syrian boy spark outcry





Under British law, only 100,000 signatures are needed to prompt a debate in parliament.
The petition went viral on social media sites Facebook and Twitter on Thursday after pictures emerged of a Syrian child lying lifeless on a Turkish beach on Wednesday. 
The child, three-year-old Aylan Kurdi, drowned with his mother and five-year-old brother, while trying to make the journey between the Turkish resort of Bodrum and the Greek island of Kos.
The images sparked international outrage and demands from governments to do more to protect those trying to reach the EU.
In an interview with the BBC on Thursday,Cameron said he was "deeply moved" by the image of Aylan, adding the UK would fulfil its "moral responsibilities" towards refugees.
"Britain has always been a home to real asylum seekers, genuine refugees," Cameron said.
Several members of Cameron's Conservative party have called on the government to grant more refugees asylum.
"The UK I know has always shouldered its burden in the world...we can and must do more at home," said Ruth Davidson, the leader of the party in Scotland.

The UK I know has always shouldered its burden in the world. DfID is doing life-saving work abroad but we can - & must - do more at home 1/2
— Ruth Davidson MSP (@RuthDavidsonMSP)  September 3, 2015 
// <![CDATA[

// ]]]] >

The British government says it has granted protection to nearly 5,000 Syrian refugees since the start of the civil war.

Following  @RuthDavidsonMSP  and  @SayeedaWarsi  ,  @BorisJohnson  becomes most senior Tory yet to call for refugee action  https://t.co/1txYZzg2ta 
— Tim Montgomerie ن (@montie)  September 3, 2015 
// <![CDATA[

// ]]]] >

 'Swarm' 
Cameron was criticised on social media for previous comments he has made about people wanting to enter the UK. In July he called those wanting to get in to the country a "swarm".
 Writing in the Independent newspaper, commentator Yasmin Alibhai-Brown slammed the prime minister for his use of the word, and other politicians for demonising refugees.
"Our Government can only talk in numbers, so too most of the media...social psychopathy is the result. "
Others compared the British prime minister's reaction to that of his German counterpart, Angela Merkel, who has promised to accept 800,000 refugees.

Protecting UK borders is not in question here, the poor leadership of @David_Cameron is. #Merkel takes the lead once again #refugeecrisis
— Bondy (@Goodison_Blues) September 3, 2015

The refugee crisis is Europe's biggest since World War II. Thousands of Syrian refugees and others, including from Iraq, Afghanistan and Sub-Saharan countries, have made the journey to EU states or are attempting to do so.Source: Al Jazeera +++ 
Al Jazeera +03 September 2015 12:04:37 GMT+ 
Al Jazeera +03 September 2015 05:12:06 GMT+ 
More to this story

Pushing for education in war-torn Syria 
Syrians continue education in Egypt

More than 13 million children are being denied an education due to conflicts in the Middle East, the UN has said, warning "the hopes of a generation" would be dashed if they cannot return to classrooms.
In a report on the impact of conflict on education in six countries and territories across the region, the UN's children fund UNICEF on Thursday said more than 8,850 schools were no longer usable due to violence.





It's not just the physical damage being done to schools, but the despair felt by a generation of schoolchildren who see their hopes and futures shattered
Peter Salama, regional director for UNICEF in the Middle East and North Africa 





It detailed cases of students and teachers coming under direct fire, classrooms used as makeshift bomb shelters and children having to cross active front-lines just to take their exams.
"The destructive impact of conflict is being felt by children right across the region," Peter Salama, regional director for UNICEF in the Middle East and North Africa, told AFP news agency.
"It's not just the physical damage being done to schools, but the despair felt by a generation of schoolchildren who see their hopes and futures shattered."
Last year alone, UNICEF documented 214 attacks on schools in Syria, Iraq, Libya, the Palestinian territories, Sudan, and Yemen.
In Syria, it said education was paying a "massive price" after four-and-a-half years of conflict.
One in four schools have been closed since the conflict erupted, causing more than two million children to drop out and putting close to half a million in danger of losing their schooling.
In addition, more than 52,000 teachers have left their posts, saddling the country's crumbling education system with an acute skills shortage.
"Even those Syrian teachers who have ended up as refugees in other countries have faced obstacles which prevent them from working," the report said.
'School no longer safe'
UNICEF said one of the worst direct attacks on a school in the region came in Yemen, where 13 staff and four children were killed in an assault on a teachers' office in the western city of Amran.





  





"The killing, abduction and arbitrary arrest of students, teachers and education personnel have become commonplace" in the region, the report said.
Hundreds of schools and colleges have been closed since March, when a Saudi-led coalition launched air strikes on Houthi rebels who had seized the capital Sanaa and several parts of the country.
In the embattled Gaza Strip, which saw a 51-day war last year between Hamas and Israel kill about 2,200 Palestinians and 73 on the Israeli side, the UN said at least 281 schools had been damaged, and eight "completely destroyed".
"My children were injured in a school. They saw people injured with missing hands or legs, with wounded faces and eyes," the report quoted Gaza mother-of-two Niveen as saying.
"They no longer see school as a safe place."
'Generation in the balance'
UNICEF said that violence in Iraq, where pro-government forces are battling the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) group, has had a severe impact on the schooling of at least 950,000 children.
It detailed scenes among the 1,200 schools in Iraqi host communities that have been turned into shelters for those displaced by violence, with up to nine families per classroom forced to prepare meals in courtyards.







// <![CDATA[
RenderGeneralBCVideo(4456117285001,0,0,330,186, "bcvid_4456117285001");brightcove.createExperiences();
// ]]]] >





Gaza art students escape war with creativity




Conflict has also affected child learning in Libya - still reeling from the 2011 ouster of longtime leader Muammar Gaddafi - with more than half of those displaced in the chaos reporting that their children cannot attend classes.
In the second city of Benghazi alone, the UN said just 65 of 239 schools are still functioning.
In Sudan, the agency said high numbers of internally displaced families fleeing violence in Darfur and South Kordofan states was putting untenable strain on the country's creaking school infrastructure.
UNICEF called for better informal education services in countries affected by school closures and for donor nations to prioritise education funding throughout the Middle East.
"With more than 13 million children already driven from classrooms by conflict, it is no exaggeration to say that the education prospects of a generation of children are in the balance," it said.Source: AFP +++ 
Al Jazeera +02 September 2015 10:33:14 GMT+ 
Correction, 2/9/2015: An earlier version of this article referred to the ICRC's centre in Tripoli as the War Traumatology Training Centre. That was incorrect. It is called the Weapon Traumatology Training Centre (WTTC).Tripoli, Lebanon - In 2011, Zaher had a bright future ahead of him. He had completed his law degree and finished his compulsory military service with the Syrian army. 
But then the conflict in Syria started, and employment opportunities disappeared, forcing him to spend most of his time at home in the mountainous city of Yabroud, about 80km north of Damascus.
In 2014, his house was hit by a missile. Thirty-year-old Zaher, who did not provide a last name, was home at the time and lost his left leg in the attack. He immediately fled to neighbouring Lebanon, where he sought treatment in the southern Lebanese border town of Rashaya, before eventually being moved to the northern city of Tripoli.





The only thing I want to do is be able to sit on a chair unassisted. All I want from God is the ability to walk again.
Um Hamada, Syrian patient 





More than a year has passed since the attack, and Zaher is slowly recovering, thanks to the rehabilitation services offered at the Weapon Traumatology Training Centre (WTTC), set up by the International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC) in two hospitals in Tripoli. It is the only centre in the region to offer emergency, reconstructive, and rehabilitation services for victims wounded by weapons.
Hobbling around on one leg, with his "good leg" encased in a metal cage, Zaher is preparing to receive a prosthetic leg eventually.
"Life continues," he told Al Jazeera. "Of course, everything has changed now, but you learn to move on. I'm trying really hard to do everything on my own and not ask for help."

RELATED: Jordan's rehabilitation clinic for victims of war

His situation is not unique. Since the opening of the WTTC in September 2014, the centre has received approximately 200 inpatients, all suffering from weapon-inflicted injuries. The minimum stay is around three to four months in order to accommodate the design and application of prosthetic limbs, therapy, and rehabilitation. According to one member of the ICRC, the type of wounds being treated are often caused by bomb blasts, which are considered to be more complex than gunshot wounds.
The ICRC makes a point of not distinguishing between patients' nationalities: Syrians, Lebanese, and Palestinians alike are all being treated. The ICRC also treats individuals who participated in the fighting in Syria and then fled to Lebanon - a sensitive issue among Lebanese, who are bitterly divided between those who support the armed opposition and those who support the Syrian government.
"When wounded, we don't care who you are or where you are from; you will be treated," Fabrizio Carboni, head of the ICRC delegation in Lebanon, told Al Jazeera.








Doctors often have to address or rectify issues caused by previous hasty medical treatment [Nour Samaha/Al Jazeera]





Potential patients go through a screening process that includes assessments by several types of surgeons to determine what sort of treatment can be offered.
"We're dealing with patients who have already gone through several surgeries, and many of them were not conducted properly," explained Paul Ley, an orthopaedic surgeon with the ICRC based at the centre in Tripoli. "Doctors [in the warzones] tend to use plates and fixations to deal with weapon wounds and are not trained in war surgery, so it ends up causing a lot of long-term issues."
He cited the recent case of a Syrian man who had been injured in clashes, and during the course of treatment, a metal rod was inserted into his thigh, running the length of his leg. "The rod itself was encased in cement. It really looked as if it was done in the back of a garage," Ley said. Suffering from extreme pain, the young man fled to Lebanon and sought medical assistance. "We had to amputate the whole leg as a result."
While Lebanon is very familiar with war injuries, having suffered its own 15-year civil war and a number of subsequent conflicts, there is still a need for specialised services, especially as the nature of the Syrian conflict evolves. According to Carboni, the idea behind such a centre is to provide expert assistance and treatment in an area where there is continual conflict.
"There are specifics to treating these sorts of patients," he said. "Ideally, we would like to get to a point where we can transfer the know-how and turn Lebanon into a reference centre for war surgery, as the environment is fertile here for this sort of development."

RELATED: World Refugee Day

While Lebanon's borders with Syria have been all but closed to refugees since October 2014, the centre still has many Syrian patients, including those suffering from the botched surgeries they received in Syria before fleeing. Um Hamada, a grandmother in her 60s, has been at the centre for several months now, seeking rehabilitation after her foot was amputated.
Originally from eastern Ghouta in Damascus, Um Hamada was outside her house buying goods some time in 2011 when a missile landed next to her.
"I couldn't understand what happened. All I know is there was some kind of explosion," she told Al Jazeera, tearing up as she remembered her life in Syria. "God wrote that we have to leave. He decided our fate."
A few months after having her leg stitched up and pins put in at a local hospital in Damascus, she fled with her family to Lebanon, with the pain in her foot becoming increasingly worse. Once in Lebanon, she sought medical assistance, and doctors decided her foot needed to be amputated. She was admitted to the WTTC just a few months ago, where she has slowly started to see real improvements in her condition.
"She was incredibly depressed and suffered from phantom pain," explained Bilal Hassan, the nurse who takes care of her. "Following her improvement, we're prepping her for a prosthetic limb."







// <![CDATA[
RenderGeneralBCVideo(3958695719001,0,0,330,186, "bcvid_3958695719001");brightcove.createExperiences();
// ]]]] >





 Will UN medical aid to Syrians be enough?




"I'm not asking for anything. The only thing I want to do is be able to sit on a chair unassisted," said Um Hamada. "All I want from God is the ability to walk again."
Even some who managed to escape Syria unscathed have suffered weapon wounds in Lebanon. The Barakat family, who fled from their home in Aleppo four years ago and went to southern Lebanon struggled to find a place to live. Finally settling into an old house that had been damaged by the Israeli war on Lebanon in 2006, they desperately tried to make it their home.
But a few weeks ago, nine-year-old Khaled, the eldest of the five Barakat children, found what he thought was a toy under a chest of drawers. He pulled it out to play with it as his two brothers joined him. Within seconds their new toy exploded, killing Khaled and severely wounding his two brothers and their father, Jamil. It turned out to be an unexploded cluster bomb dropped by the Israeli military in 2006.
After receiving emergency treatment at a hospital in southern Lebanon, the children were rushed to Tripoli to receive specialised treatment and surgery at the WTTC to remove the shrapnel that had become embedded in their bodies.
"When we came to Lebanon, we never even thought we would face a bomb here," said Iman Barakat, Khaled's mother. Sobbing, she added: "I just wish I could see Khaled again."Source: Al Jazeera +++ 
Al Jazeera +01 September 2015 06:43:44 GMT+ 
More to this story

France: Where refugees go to avoid 'the jungle' 
Figures show record influx of refugees into Europe
Arrests made after 71 dead refugees found in Austria

Trains from Hungary carrying thousands of refugees have started arriving in Vienna and Munich.
In the latest twist in a humanitarian and political crisis that is now testing the survival of both Europe's open-border regime and its asylum rules, Hungary allowed the refugees, many of them fleeing Syria's civil war, to cram into at least four trains leaving Budapest for Austria or Germany.
Police in Vienna said on Tuesday that 3,650 refugees had reached the city on Monday, representing a new daily record.

Why Al Jazeera will not say Mediterranean 'migrants'

Austrian authorities appeared to have given up on trying to apply European Union rules by filtering out refugees who had already claimed asylum in Hungary, train passengers said.
Many of the refugees arriving in Vienna's railway station on Monday evening immediately raced to board trains heading on to Germany, as policemen looked on passively, preferring not to intervene, witnesses said.
'Germany, thank you!'
Refugees cheered and chanted "Germany, thank you!" as they saw a welcome sign held up by local people at Munich Central Station late on Monday.
Police said some 500 refugees, mainly from the Middle East, were on the train. They were to be transported by bus to camps where they will be registered.
Germany has taken in more asylum seekers than any other European Union country. German Chancellor Angela Merkel on Monday called for other EU nations to do more to help deal with this year's influx of refugees.
Austrian authorities have stopped hundreds of refugees and arrested five traffickers as part of a clampdown along a main motorway from Hungary against the criminal gangs exploiting the human misery.







// <![CDATA[
RenderGeneralBCVideo(4455711026001,0,0,330,186, "bcvid_4455711026001");brightcove.createExperiences();
// ]]]] >






Austrians rally in solidarity with refugees





On Monday evening, around 20,000 people took part in a pro-refugee rally in Vienna, calling for the fair and respectful treatment of people fleeing from conflicts mainly in the Middle East and Africa.
The protest on Monday came just days after 71 refugees were found dead in a truck on an Austrian highway.
With many dressed in white, the protesters marched through the streets of the Austrian capital, holding candles and banners with slogans reading "Human Rights are Borderless" and "No Person is Illegal".
"What have we heard today 'Say it loud, say it clear, refugees are welcome here,' and other similar sayings. It is about a culture of welcoming and not controlling the people who are fleeing death. We can't solve all problems but we must be open-minded and have an open heart," said Austrian singer and human rights activist, Willi Resetarits.
The route of the demonstration had to be changed because so many turned up to take part but a spokesperson for the police said that the change in plans was not a problem.
"The demonstration has been extremely peaceful, there have not been any incidents, reports or arrests. It was really very, very peaceful and therefore it was not a problem and so the rally is taking place in front of the parliament," Thomas Keiblinger told Reuters news agency.Source: Al Jazeera and agencies +++ 
Al Jazeera +31 August 2015 14:00:35 GMT+ 
Nord-Pas-de-Calais, France -   It is easy not to notice the refugee camp in Tatinghem, a sleepy little village in the northern French countryside. Tucked inconspicuously between two wheatfields off a bumpy side road, even the locals outside the town pub were surprised to hear of it.
 It was mid-afternoon at the camp and a group of Afghan boys was cooking food brought to them every two days by a local church. A child no older than two years crawled out of a shabby hut and played with his infant brother on mud-stained wooden pallets. 
 One of the older members of the camp, Ramillah - a 29-year-old Afghan man and a former interpreter for the British army who asked to be identified only by his first name - stepped forward and spoke in fluent English. 
 He arrived at Tatinghem four days earlier after people smugglers drove him across Europe and dropped him off at the camp. 
 "It's hard for me to live here," he said, looking tired and shaken. "Sometimes we get enough supplies. Sometimes we don't… I wish someone would give me a safe passage to England." 
While the camp in Calais - also known as "the Jungle" with an estimated 3,000 people - remains the largest and most visible sign of the refugee crisis in France, smaller settlements such as Tatinghem are scattered across the north of the country.

RELATED: Why Al Jazeera will not say Mediterranean 'migrants'

The refugee charity Association Terre d'Errance, or The Wandering Earth Association, estimates there are 11 northern camps. Encampments have also popped up in Paris, Dieppe, Boulogne and Le Havre. 
Traditionally these camps have received little attention.
But now some are growing in size, and as the refugee crisis in Europe intensifies and security at Calais is tightened, the numbers are likely to rise.








Afghan refugees live in small makeshift camps across northern France's countryside [Philip Kleinfeld/Al Jazeera]





  Invisible camps   
 "For many years we have tried to make the public and media aware that there are other places," Lily Boillet, a member of The Wandering Earth Association, told Al Jazeera. 
 "All the attention and focus is in Calais. But if Calais is more protected, people will need an escape. They could move and it could increase the numbers at all the other places," Boillet explained. 
 One of the largest refugee camps outside Calais is in Grande-Synthe, a 40km drive north from the small settlement in Tatinghem.  
 The camp - predominantly home to Kurds from Syria and Iraq - usually holds about 100 people, but recently the size has tripled.
 At the local office of the aid group Salam, Sylvie Cousin, a volunteer who has worked at Grande-Synthe for the past four years, said the charity is overstretched. Food, clothes, and other resources are needed, but the numbers keep rising and public donations are in short supply. 
 "At the moment it's very difficult," she said. "Everyone knows Calais, but not Grande-Synthe. Many charity groups come from the UK to Calais. We need help too." 





  





People smugglers - who charge high prices to drive refugees to nearby service stations where they attempt to board trucks heading for the UK - have been operating in the area for years.
But smugglers are now thought to be getting  increasingly organised  and are reportedly using cars   with British license plates. 
On August 16, a car chase between French police and smugglers driving a UK-registered vehicle ended up at the camp in Grand-Synthe, with the smugglers fleeing into the camp.
 The next day the mood at the camp was tense. About 20 riot police trudged up and down a muddy path where there were three parked police vans.
Smugglers were still there, Cousin said, and many of the refugees were afraid to speak, or they would only talk out of sight from the main camp. 
 "This is a big problem, every day they [the smugglers] come here," Babou, 21, from the Kurdish region of northern Iraq, said nervously.
 "It's very dangerous for everyone - French, Kurdish, Arabic. But Calais is no good," he said, adding he'd heard there were 5,000 people there. 
 Further south, in the small commune of Norrent-Fontes, lies another refugee camp where 120 people currently live. 

RELATED: Emergency EU meeting called to tackle refugee crisis

Berhana, 25, from Eritrea, said he'd already been to Calais but after a failed attempt to reach England, he retreated to Norrent-Fontes for temporary "rest".
 "Calais is more dangerous for people," he said. "So many of our friends have broken arms and legs or died. But we don't have any other way. Some people try life in Norrent-Fontes, but most end up going to Calais. If you don't have a country, then you must search for one to live in."
At the camp, a group of Eritrean men sat outside makeshift tents, cooking and listening to reggae.
 In April, two of the camp's four wooden buildings burned down in a fire, leaving 80 people without shelter. The Wandering Earth Association has since collected donations and started rebuilding. However, in early August, the mayor of the town stopped them   in an attempt to get the refugees to leave. 
 The camp has been open for 15 years and conditions have always been tough with no running water or electricity. 
"The first camp was a lot better, but it has been destroyed," said a young Eritrean man who asked not to be named, swiping through pictures of the fire on his phone. "Now the rain gets to us."








An Eritrean man shows the fire-destroyed camp in Norrent-Fontes [Philip Kleinfeld/Al Jazeera]





 Unaccompanied children
In some places even flimsy tents are not allowed. As night fell in Lille, the fifth-largest urban area in France, 30 West African boys, most of them teenagers, sat around in one of the country's newest informal camps: a small park off Boulevard Victor Hugo.
 When they first arrived three months ago, they were offered a room to sleep in at a local church. Now they stay outside in the park with nothing but sleeping bags after local police took away their tents, mattresses, and cooking equipment. 
The French government is supposed to have a system in place for unaccompanied minors, but here the boys sleep in the rain, with their next meal dependent on the generosity of locals.







// <![CDATA[
RenderGeneralBCVideo(4453928926001,0,0,330,186, "bcvid_4453928926001");brightcove.createExperiences();
// ]]]] >





 From war-torn Syria to imprisonment in Europe




 
 "We cannot eat, we cannot go to school, we cannot get clothes and we have no place to sleep," said Timberland, a young man from Cameroon who left the country after an attack on his village by the armed group, Boko Haram. 
 Still, the option of staying in Calais, where at least tents and other sleeping and cooking equipment are allowed, doesn't appeal to them. None of the boys want asylum in the UK, and many are scared of moving. 
 "Here is for children," Timberland said. "In Calais, police beat people. I have seen it on television." 
 That night it began to rain. As the last nights of summer pass, it's hard to picture their plight getting any better.Source: Al Jazeera +++ 
Al Jazeera +31 August 2015 12:05:55 GMT+ 
Beirut -  Abdul Halim Attar looked drained, puffing on a locally manufactured Cedars cigarette as he paused to collect his thoughts on everything that has happened to him over the last few days.
Originally from Yarmouk in Syria, the 35-year-old Palestinian-Syrian fled to Lebanon three years ago with his two children: Reem, who is almost four years old, and Aboudi, who is nine. A single father, Attar found a tiny two-room apartment in a rundown area of Beirut's Jnah district, and began selling pens on the street to make ends meet.
Leaving Aboudi at home to look after the flat, he would hoist Reem on his shoulders and spend several hours a day smiling and laughing with passers-by as he offered his pens for sale. On a good day, he would earn about $35.
But last week, Attar's life changed dramatically. A passer-by took a picture of him with Reem asleep on his shoulders as he was trying to sell his wares, and the picture went viral, prompting a  fundraising campaign  to help give him a better life.  


// <![CDATA[
(function(d, s, id) {
        var js, fjs = d.getElementsByTagName(s)[0];
        if (d.getElementById(id)) return;
        js = d.createElement(s);
        js.id = id;
        js.src = "//connect.facebook.net/en_US/sdk.js#xfbml=1&version=v2.3";
        fjs.parentNode.insertBefore(js, fjs);
    }(document, 'script', 'facebook-jssdk'));
// ]]]] >




 #BuyPens refugee tells us his story 
"I want to use any money I get to help other Syrians. What's for me is for them."Abdel-Halim's face became known around the world when a photo of him selling pens as his sleeping daughter hung over his shoulder went viral. A crowdfunding campaign, Buy Pens started for him has since raised over $150,000.We spoke to Abdel-Halim at his home in Beirut about the outpouring of support and what he plans to do with the money.Read more: http://aje.io/BuyPens
Posted by  Al Jazeera English  on Monday, August 31, 2015


By Monday, the #BuyPens campaign had already raised more than $150,000, as people from around the world rushed to help the Attar family.
He told Al Jazeera that he feels he is living in a dream.
"I still can't believe this is happening to me," he said. "I didn't understand what was going on. One day I woke up to go to work; suddenly hundreds of people were coming up to me, trying to talk to me, and I didn't understand why.
"I was scared at first," he added, noting he was initially concerned that security forces may be trying to take his children away. "[At first, I thought] I would run away."
But he quickly found out that he had become the focus of international attention. "One woman came up to me, saying she broke her feet looking for me for five hours, and told me what was going on... I'm still in disbelief," he said.

 RELATED: For refugees in Lebanon, a desperate search for dignity 

Cramped and barely furnished, Attar's apartment is located at the top of a set of broken stairs. On a recent day, Reem, with big brown eyes and a captivating smile, played with her hair clips, while Aboudi sat quietly on the couch, observing the guests in the room.
Asked why he sold pens, Attar smiled. "Because everyone needs a pen," he said. "Whatever you do in life, whoever you are, you'll need a pen."





  





The #BuyPens campaign has been actively looking for a new home for the Attar family, and said they will receive the funds at the conclusion of the campaign, in just under two weeks. Attar said he knows exactly what he will do with the money.
"I want to use the money to help Syrians. I don't want to be the only one being helped; there are thousands of children on the streets. There are people who are worse off than I am," he said passionately. "Syria is my country; these are my people. In Syria, we used to welcome everyone and help them.
"I am lucky because at least I have a roof over my head and somewhere to sleep," he added. "There are many who are barely living. I hope this campaign grows to help all Syrians. I hope other Syrians get a campaign the way I got a campaign, and people can see the conditions they are in."
Source: Al Jazeera +++ 
Al Jazeera +31 August 2015 05:39:57 GMT+ 
More to this story

'Running from death': Refugees pack streets of Turkey

European Union home affairs ministers will hold emergency talks on September 14 in Brussels on the continent's escalating refugee crisis, the Luxembourg government has said.
"The situation of migration phenomena outside and inside the European Union has recently taken unprecedented proportions," a statement from Luxembourg, which holds the EU's six-month rotating presidency, said on Sunday.
"In order to assess the situation on the ground, the political actions under way and to discuss the next steps in order to strengthen the European response, the Luxembourg Minister for Immigration and Asylum Jean Asselborn decided to convene an extraordinary JHA [justice and home affairs] council," the statement said.







// <![CDATA[
RenderGeneralBCVideo(4452244784001, 0, 0, 330, 186, "bcvid_4452244784001");
                            brightcove.createExperiences();
// ]]]] >






Europe-bound refugees continue to cross border into Hungary





The announcement for the meeting of the EU's 28 member states came after a joint call for the talks by Germany, France, and Britain earlier on Sunday.
Germany's Thomas de Maiziere, Britain's Theresa May and France's Bernard Cazeneuve held talks on Saturday on the issue, on the sidelines of a meeting in Paris on transport security.
The trio "underlined the necessity to take immediate action to deal with the challenge from the migrant influx".
They also called for reception centres to be set up urgently in Italy and Greece in order to register new arrivals, and for a common EU list of "safe countries of origin" to be established.

Why Al Jazeera will not say Mediterranean 'migrants'

Germany, which is expecting to receive 800,000 refugees this year, has been pushing for such a list, arguing that it would free up resources to help those fleeing war and persecution.
The number of refugees reaching the EU's borders reached nearly 340,000 during the first seven months of the year, up from 123,500 during the same period in 2014, according to the bloc's border agency Frontex.
 Hungary asylum laws 
Meanwhile, human rights groups said changes to asylum laws planned by Hungary's government will encourage more people-smuggling.





  





The changes include the tightening of borders and returning the refugees to Serbia, the last border they crossed.
Al Jazeera's Andrew Simmons, reporting from Budapest, said hundreds of refugees were now stranded in the capital with nowhere to go.
"Hungary's government is ignoring all criticism of how it's handling this crisis. It stands accused of stripping away the rights of refugees and it is preparing a raft of new legislation which could mean thousands of refugees are sent back to Serbia.
"Nearly all of the refugees here have crossed from Serbia. Hungary is defining its neighbour as a safe third country, one of several changes," Simmons said.

OPINION: Refugee crisis exposes massive flaws in EU governance

The changes mean that asylum seeker who crossed from Serbia will have no valid claim in Hungary, Gabor Gyulai of the Hungary Helsinki Committee said.
"Their claim will be rejected at first sight without considering any protection need, without considering why they left war in Syria, Afghanistan or Iraq."
Annastiina Kallius, a volunteer of rights group Migrant Solidarity, said she was in Budapest to advise refugees on their journeys.
"We cannot only blame the smugglers because we are giving an incentive for the smugglers. We are giving them better business by not letting them [refugees] take the train," Kallius told Al Jazeera.
Some 10,000 people are estimated to have crossed over the Serbian border into Hungary in the last week alone, as growing numbers of refugees continue their journeys across Europe.
At a park in the centre of Belgrade, more and more people are arriving by the hour. They get something to eat, rest a little and prepare for the next leg of their journey into Hungary.
Hungary has now completed a four-metre-high fence along its border with Serbia and is working to build another one, and while many refugees say the journey to Serbia has been relatively problem free, they do fear what awaits them at the border.
"Other people who went ahead of us were told by Hungarian officials that if they didn't give a finger print, they would be hit and thrown in jail. Now we are scared to go to Hungary," said Lokman, a Syrian refugee.








Syrian refugees, including many women with small children, sleep in a park in Belgrade [AP]













Syrian refugees in Belgrade, Serbia, are waiting for an opportunity to travel north to cross the border with Hungary, entering the EU [AP]




Source: Al Jazeera and agencies +++ 
Al Jazeera +31 August 2015 12:05:55 GMT+ 
Beirut -  Abdul Halim Attar looked drained, puffing on a locally manufactured Cedars cigarette as he paused to collect his thoughts on everything that has happened to him over the last few days.
Originally from Yarmouk in Syria, the 35-year-old Palestinian-Syrian fled to Lebanon three years ago with his two children: Reem, who is almost four years old, and Aboudi, who is nine. A single father, Attar found a tiny two-room apartment in a rundown area of Beirut's Jnah district, and began selling pens on the street to make ends meet.
Leaving Aboudi at home to look after the flat, he would hoist Reem on his shoulders and spend several hours a day smiling and laughing with passers-by as he offered his pens for sale. On a good day, he would earn about $35.
But last week, Attar's life changed dramatically. A passer-by took a picture of him with Reem asleep on his shoulders as he was trying to sell his wares, and the picture went viral, prompting a  fundraising campaign  to help give him a better life.  


// <![CDATA[
(function(d, s, id) {
        var js, fjs = d.getElementsByTagName(s)[0];
        if (d.getElementById(id)) return;
        js = d.createElement(s);
        js.id = id;
        js.src = "//connect.facebook.net/en_US/sdk.js#xfbml=1&version=v2.3";
        fjs.parentNode.insertBefore(js, fjs);
    }(document, 'script', 'facebook-jssdk'));
// ]]]] >




 #BuyPens refugee tells us his story 
"I want to use any money I get to help other Syrians. What's for me is for them."Abdel-Halim's face became known around the world when a photo of him selling pens as his sleeping daughter hung over his shoulder went viral. A crowdfunding campaign, Buy Pens started for him has since raised over $150,000.We spoke to Abdel-Halim at his home in Beirut about the outpouring of support and what he plans to do with the money.Read more: http://aje.io/BuyPens
Posted by  Al Jazeera English  on Monday, August 31, 2015


By Monday, the #BuyPens campaign had already raised more than $150,000, as people from around the world rushed to help the Attar family.
He told Al Jazeera that he feels he is living in a dream.
"I still can't believe this is happening to me," he said. "I didn't understand what was going on. One day I woke up to go to work; suddenly hundreds of people were coming up to me, trying to talk to me, and I didn't understand why.
"I was scared at first," he added, noting he was initially concerned that security forces may be trying to take his children away. "[At first, I thought] I would run away."
But he quickly found out that he had become the focus of international attention. "One woman came up to me, saying she broke her feet looking for me for five hours, and told me what was going on... I'm still in disbelief," he said.

 RELATED: For refugees in Lebanon, a desperate search for dignity 

Cramped and barely furnished, Attar's apartment is located at the top of a set of broken stairs. On a recent day, Reem, with big brown eyes and a captivating smile, played with her hair clips, while Aboudi sat quietly on the couch, observing the guests in the room.
Asked why he sold pens, Attar smiled. "Because everyone needs a pen," he said. "Whatever you do in life, whoever you are, you'll need a pen."





  





The #BuyPens campaign has been actively looking for a new home for the Attar family, and said they will receive the funds at the conclusion of the campaign, in just under two weeks. Attar said he knows exactly what he will do with the money.
"I want to use the money to help Syrians. I don't want to be the only one being helped; there are thousands of children on the streets. There are people who are worse off than I am," he said passionately. "Syria is my country; these are my people. In Syria, we used to welcome everyone and help them.
"I am lucky because at least I have a roof over my head and somewhere to sleep," he added. "There are many who are barely living. I hope this campaign grows to help all Syrians. I hope other Syrians get a campaign the way I got a campaign, and people can see the conditions they are in."
Source: Al Jazeera +++ 
Al Jazeera +30 August 2015 08:07:40 GMT+ 
Izmir, Turkey -    Izmir, Turkey's third-largest city, lures travellers with its 4,000 years of history and pristine beaches. 
 But in the city centre, in the neighbourhood of Basmane, the hundreds of people camping in the streets are drawn to the Aegean Sea for vastly different reasons. They are refugees, most fleeing the wars in Syria and Iraq, trying to cross to Greece and find refuge in Europe. 
 Greece has seen a big influx of refugees from Turkey, including more than 50,000 in July alone. Turkey's proximity to Greece makes cities like Izmir hotspots for refugees, who are often told that the gates to Europe lie just 40 minutes away. 
 Hotels and restaurants in Basmane, once filled with tourists, are now crammed with refugees - as are alleys, bus stops and parks. 





Never in our lives have we thought of leaving Syria, but now we must go.
Khaled,  Syrian refugee 





 Khaled, 51, fled Damascus in 2012 after the Syrian army besieged his house. Three years later, the end of the civil war is nowhere in sight, and Khaled now lives on society's  fringes, struggling to make a living. Lying on a blanket in a playground in Basmane, Khaled - whose name, along with those of other refugees interviewed for this story, has been changed to protect his identity - and his family of seven say they are waiting for smugglers to take them to Greece. 
 "Camps are too bad nowadays," he told Al Jazeera.  

 RELATED: Refugee crisis strains resources on Greek island

Turkey, which has an open-door policy for Syrian refugees, is currently hosting two million of them - about 45 percent of all refugees from the country.
"All Syrians staying here would go back to Syria if the war ended now," Khaled said. "Never in our lives have we thought of leaving Syria, but now we must go."
 In Damascus, Khaled had a three-bedroom house, a job at the airport scheduling aircraft arrivals, $300,000 worth of property and even a summer house. But, he explained, "the army took everything and sold it in the market". 
 At first, life in the camp in Suleiman Shah, near the Turkish town of Akcakale, was good compared to the situation in Syria. "The government gave us food, tents to stay in the camp and food cards," he said. But today, "there are a lot of Syrians, and there is no place [in the camps]". 
 Ahmed, 38, fled Syria in 2013 from Deir Az Zor with his wife and four children. Khaled and Ahmed have partnered up for the perilous journey ahead. "The children haven't studied in four years, and the war may go on for 10 more," Ahmed told Al Jazeera. He said education is important to him - his oldest child is nine years old - but there are no actual schools in the camp and dozens of students for each teacher. 
 Unable to work and striving to make ends meet on stipends of just 85 Turkish lira ($30) a month for each person in the camp, both Ahmad and Khaled left in search of work. "A lot of people work for nothing," said Khaled. "Doctors and engineers work in construction." 
Syrian refugees are  not granted special work permits   in Turkey, therefore, many work illegally and earn lower wages than their Turkish counterparts. "Women work, even the children work," he said. "Life is too expensive. If we want to live, all of us need to work."








// <![CDATA[
RenderGeneralBCVideo(4425284845001, 0, 0, 330, 186, "bcvid_4425284845001");
                                brightcove.createExperiences();
// ]]]] >





 Inside Story - Chaos in Kos: Greece on the frontline of refugee crisis 




According to the men, most Syrian refugees work in construction. "Most people work for nothing," said Ahmed. "Turkish people made 80 lira ($27) and they gave us 20 ($6.80)... We are going to Europe, and wherever we arrive, we will stay. We just want to go out far away from here."

  RELATED: Turkey denies border guards shot Syrian civilians  

The boat to Greece will cost the men $1,100 a person. Children under five are allowed to board for free.
"We only have money to reach Greece. Afterwards, we don't know what we'll do," said Khaled. The men estimate that their journey to Europe - with their final destination unknown - will cost another $3,000 for each person. "When I arrive to Europe, I will work it out... We may die on the way, but we don't have a choice."
The families attempted to cross the sea once before but were caught by authorities before climbing into a boat. They spent a night at a police station, where they were processed and told to leave Turkey. 
At least 7,000  refugees are currently stranded on the Greek island of Kos, and hundreds more - mostly Syrians, but also Afghans and Iraqis - are waiting to follow. Earlier this month, about 2,500 refugees  were locked inside a stadium in Kos without access to water. But for many, the perils of the journey are balanced by the prospect of a future in Europe. 
Summer is the prime season for refugees to risk their lives, taking inflatable dinghies across the Mediterranean. But Khaled and Ahmed do not fear capsizing as much as the possibility that the coastguard patrolling the sea may send them back to Turkey.
So far, Turkey has spent over $5bn  on humanitarian aid for Syrian refugees, allowing many men, women and children to reach safety. But even so, many are finding that life in Turkey is  not easy. "We were running from death, and we are finding death here," Khaled said.
Source: Al Jazeera +++ 
Al Jazeera +29 August 2015 04:41:44 GMT+ 
At least 105 people have been killed and more than one hundred others are still missing after a boat, reportedly packed with refugees bound for Italy, capsized and sunk off the Libyan coast.
Hussein Asheini, the head of Libya's Red Crescent in Zuwara, told the Associated Press news agency that 105 bodies had been recovered. Nearly 200 others had been rescued, the organisation said.
A security official in Zuwarah, a town in the North African nation's west from where the overcrowded boat had set off, said that there were about 400 people on board.
The UNHCR, the UN Agency for refugees, in a statement, released on Friday, said there were about 500 people on board. 
Sources told Al Jazeera that many of the dead had been trapped in the cargo hold when the boat capsized on Thursday.
The people on board had come from sub-Saharan Africa, Pakistan, Syria, Morocco, and Bangladesh, the Libyan security official said.
The UNHCR also announced on Friday that more than 300,000 refugees and migrants had risked their lives crossing the Mediterranean to Europe in the first nine months of 2015 alone.
About 2,500 people had died while making the perilous journey, the UNHCR said. 
"This represents a large increase from last year, when around 219,000 people crossed the Mediterranean during the whole of 2014," the UN said.

 Blog: Why Al Jazeera will not say 'Mediterranean migrants' 

Zuwarah, Libya's most western town located near the Tunisian border, is a major launchpad for smugglers moving refugees to Italy.
Libya has turned into a transit route for people fleeing conflict and poverty to make it to Europe.
Cross-border smuggler networks exploit the country's lawlessness and chaos to bring Syrians into Libya via Egypt or nationals of sub-Saharan countries via Niger, Sudan, and Chad.
Speaking to Al Jazeera, Anas El Gomati, who founded the Tripoli-based think-tank The Sadeq Institute, said Libya's government does not feel it should be helping pay the bill to deal with refugees making their way to Europe as it is facing continued violence across the country.
"Libya's security approach - and security apparatus - is now completely disorganised and in chaos," he said.
"You have hundreds of different groups that are operating on the ground now, some of them taking advantage of a very, very chaotic situation - one of civil war." 








 





In a separate incident on Thursday, 71 refugees were found dead in a parked lorry on a highway in Austria near the Hungarian border on Thursday.The refrigerated vehicle was found by an Austrian motorway patrol with fluids from the decomposing bodies seeping from its back door.
At a Geneva briefing, the UNHCR said that in another incident on Thursday, 51 people suffocated in the hold of a boat.
Survivors said they had been beaten to force them into the hold and then had to pay money to smugglers just to come out to breathe.One man, an Iraqi orthopaedic surgeon, said he had paid 3,000 euros ($3,400) to come up on to the top deck with his wife and two-year-old son.Last week, 49 people died in another boat's hold after inhaling poisonous fumes, and on Wednesday 21 people are thought to have died after a dinghy with 145 on board got into difficulty, UNHCR spokeswoman Melissa Fleming said.Source: Al Jazeera and agencies +++ 
Al Jazeera +28 August 2015 12:23:46 GMT+ 
A boat reportedly packed with people from Africa and South Asia bound for Italy has sunk off the Libyan coast, raising fears that dozens have died.
A security official in Zuwarah, a town in the North African nation's west from where the overcrowded boat had set off, said on Thursday there were about 400 people on board.
While an official death toll has not been announced, sources told Al Jazeera that dozens of people died in the incident, with many reported to have been trapped in the cargo hold when the boat capsized.

 Blog: Why Al Jazeera will not say 'Mediterranean migrants' 

By late in the evening, the Libyan coastguard had rescued about 201 people, of which 147 were brought to a detention facility for "illegal migrants" in Sabratha, west of the capital Tripoli, the security official was cited by Reuters news agency as saying.
Another local official and a journalist based in Zuwarah confirmed the sinking but also had no information on casualties.
The people on board had been from sub-Saharan Africa, Pakistan, Syria, Morocco, and Bangladesh, the Libyan security official said.
The Italian coastguard, which has been coordinating rescue operations with the European Union off the Libyan coast, could not confirm a sinking.











Libya's coastguard has very limited capabilities, relying on small inflatables, tug boats and fishing vessels.
Al Jazeera's Claudio Lavanga, reporting from Rome, said according to accounts by survivors, most of the people who had died were locked inside the hold of the boat. 
"We've seen this many times before, only a few days before 50 refugees died because they were held in the hold," Lavanga said.
"Sometimes they die of suffocation and sometimes they drown because they can't escape after the boat capsizes...these are people who don't have the money to pay for a 'deck' position."








 






 Smugglers' launchpad 
Zuwarah, Libya's most western town located near the Tunisian border, is a major launchpad for smugglers shipping refugees and migrants to Italy.
Libya has turned into a transit route for people fleeing conflict and poverty to make it to Europe.
Cross-border smuggler networks exploit the country's lawlessness and chaos to bring Syrians into Libya via Egypt or nationals of sub-Saharan countries via Niger, Sudan, and Chad.
More than 2,300 people have died this year in attempts to reach Europe by boat, compared with 3,279 during the whole of last year, according to the International Organization for Migration.







// <![CDATA[
RenderGeneralBCVideo(4194547024001, 0, 0, 330, 186, "bcvid_4194547024001");
                            brightcove.createExperiences();
// ]]]] >






Inside Story: Libya's lawlessness and the refugee crisis





Speaking to Al Jazeera, Anas El Gomati, who founded the Tripoli-based think-tank The Sadeq Institute, said Libya's government does not feel it should be helping pay the bill to deal with refugees making their way to Europe as it is facing continued violence across the country.
"Libya's security approach - and security apparatus - is now completely disorganised and in chaos," he said.
"You have hundreds of different groups that are operating on the ground now, some of them taking advantage of a very, very chaotic situation - one of civil war."
On Thursday, 71 refugees were found dead in a parked lorry in Austria near the Hungarian border on Thursday.
German Chancellor Angela Merkel said the discovery had shaken European leaders discussing the refugee crisis at a Balkans summit.
Libya has been struggling to cope with an influx of foreigners, putting them in overcrowded makeshift detention facilities such as schools or military barracks where they live in poor conditions lacking medical care.
Libya used to deport people it caught but with fighting between armed groups having cut off land border crossings to Niger, Algeria, and Chad many stay months or years in detention facilities.Source: Al Jazeera and agencies +++ 
