Lexis+Story+Text of report by Finnish popular conservative newspaper Helsingin Sanomat website, on 1 October
[Report by Laura Saarikoski: "Soini at United Nations: Al-Assad is War Criminal Who Cannot Stay in Leadership of Syria"] 
Soini discussed Syria with Russian foreign minister a day before Russia started the bombing.
Foreign Minister Timo Soini (Finns Party) says that the Syrian war will not be solved unless negotiations are held with the regime of dictator Bashar al-Assad. 
"Naturally, as a war criminal, al-Assad cannot permanently remain in the leadership of Syria," Soini said on Wednesday [30 September] in New York where he attended the United Nations' 70th anniversary meeting.
By calling al-Assad a war criminal, Soini clearly aligned his stance with the policy of the United States. President Barack Obama has been reluctant to even negotiate with al-Assad, because he has killed more of his own citizens than the extremist organization ISIL.
Al-Assad's ally Russia disagrees completely; on Wednesday, it started air raids against al-Assad's opponents in Syria.
Soini met Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov at the United Nations the day before the bombing began.
"Lavrov made it known that Russia is a long-term supporter of Syria and has continuously helped the country. They have not denied or concealed this in any way."
Soini estimates that with the bombing, Russia aims to support its allies and expand its sphere of influence.
"Weapons cannot bring a solution, but weapons can be used to establish a position. Perhaps Russia's message is also that it will stand by its partners."
According to Soini's estimate, over the past few years Russia has been annoyed by the fact that in the international arena, it has not been as powerful a player as it was earlier.
"Now it actually is."
Soini says that it is too early to say what the result of the attacks will be. However, he thinks it is clear that there is no military solution to the war in Syria, but the United Nations is needed to achieve peace.
"The superpowers have always had power policy interests, which we in the smaller countries monitor closely."
At the United Nations, Soini also met the foreign ministers of Iraq, Somalia and Lebanon, with whom he discussed the conditions on the refugee camps. At the United Nations, Finland pledged additional funds for Syrian refugee camps.
"The living conditions on the refugee camps are a really big issue. If they become crowded, the movement [to Europe] will gain momentum," Soini said.
President Sauli Niinisto said earlier at the United Nations that Finland should receive more refugees directly from the camps because those in the weakest position live there. Soini agrees. He says that the current refugees cause a "brain drain" in the departure countries.
"Now those that are leaving are the best people, who can afford to pay the human traffickers. Targeting human trafficking is essential."
According to Soini, the freeze on asylum applications of Iraqis and Somalis is an attempt to send a message to the departure countries that it is not worthwhile going to Finland without meeting the refugee criteria.
"It will be an expensive and futile journey." he said.
Soini was also asked whether the Foreign Ministry is concerned about the fact that news of racist attacks against asylum seekers in Finland have spread around the world.
Ambassador Jari Luoto said last week that Finland's stance on the EU's refugee quotas was "image building from hell." At the United Nations, also many UN diplomats, civil servants and President Tarja Halonen have had to explain the attacks against asylum seekers in Finland.
"It is clear that there is no place for violence in a civilized country," Soini said.
He says that the civil servants should "take into consideration" that they are in the service of the state when they comment on issues. 
Source: Helsingin Sanomat website, Helsinki, in Finnish 0000 gmt 1 Oct 15
+
Lexis+Story+The U.S. is well-prepared to assist the thousands of Syrian refugees that President Obama plans to resettle in the country, federal immigration officials signaled Thursday, as some Republicans raised concern about the risk of terrorism.
The U.S. has a long tradition of helping foreigners who seek asylum and funds will be available to help them resettle, officials from the State Department, Department of Health and Human Services and U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services told a Senate Judiciary subcommittee. They also assured senators that no shortcuts would be taken in their security clearance process.
The resettlement program focuses on refugees with immediate need who do not pose a security threat, said Larry Bartlett, admissions director at the State Department's Bureau of Population, Refugees, and Migration. 
They are, Bartlett said, subjected to more intense scrutiny than any other travelers.
"The program enjoys substantial support from state and local governments, as well as community members," he said.
Obama has pledged to take in at least 10,000 refugees fleeing war-torn Syria for the fiscal year that began Thursday. This week, he ordered the ceiling for the number of total refugee admissions to be raised from 70,000 to 85,000.
Barbara Strack, chief of the Refugee Affairs Division at the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, testified that her agency, which conducts security checks of applicants, has met the refugee admission ceiling of 70,000 for three years in a row.
"When I meet with new officers joining the refugee corps, I talk with them about the United States' long-standing tradition of offering protection to those fleeing prosecution," she said.
However, U.S. agencies have often struggled to clear refugees through a vetting process that takes 18 to 24 months.
Conservatives have voiced concern about the security risk that refugees from countries infiltrated by terrorists may pose.
Republican Sen. Jeff Sessions of Alabama, chairman of the subcommittee, criticized plans to increase the number of refugees accepted by the U.S. to at least 100,000 next year. Such an increase, he said, would further stretch public benefits and outpace the security screening process refugees are required to undergo.
He also cited recent data from the Pew Research Center that shows the near-record growth of foreign-born residents, who now account for 14% of the U.S. population.
"The situation in Syria and throughout the Middle East is a serious one," Sessions said. "It cannot be solved with immigrating large numbers of people from that region."
Another Republican committee member, Sen. Thom Tillis of North Carolina, recalled the February slaying of four people, a case in which the suspect had been granted special immigration status.
The State Department spent about $3 billion in the last fiscal year to help resettle refugees.
Sessions questioned how the country could afford to bring in more refugees. The witnesses said that some programs may be given lower priority to find additional funds.
Human rights groups and some Democrats have called on the U.S. to admit more Syrians. About 1,300 have been brought to the U.S. since the war there began in 2011.
"In light of this global emergency situation, we urge the United States to lead a comprehensive global initiative in partnership with European and other states to improve access to protection for refugees," Human Rights First, a Washington-based group, wrote in a letter to the subcommittee.
Democratic Sen. Al Franken of Minnesota said experience has shown that the country can resettle refugees and deal with security concerns.
On the day last week that Pope Francis told Congress to respond to the refugee crisis in a "humane, just and fraternal" way, 18 mayors wrote to Obama, expressing their willingness to accept Syrian refugees in their cities, including Los Angeles, Chicago, New York and Allentown, Pa. More than 3,800 Syrians already live in Lehigh County, where Allentown is located.
More than 4 million Syrians are estimated to have fled since the uprising began against Syrian President Bashar Assad's government. Many headed to Europe, largely driving a global refugee crisis not seen since World War II, according to the Office of the U.N. High Commissioner for Refugees.
The crisis has further exposed division among European Union members. Among countries that are opening their borders, Germany has agreed to take 800,000 Syrians, while France and Britain have each pledged to accept 20,000.
--
marcus.howard@latimes.com
Twitter: @marcusehoward
+
Lexis+Story+UNITED NATIONS --  Over the last four years, as four million Syrian refugees poured into neighboring countries and slipped inexorably into poverty, António Guterres, the United Nations high commissioner for refugees, said he had pleaded in vain with world leaders to take their plight more seriously.
But suddenly, at the United Nations General Assembly this week, leaders of the world's most powerful countries want to meet with him, all of them deeply worried about the refugee crisis. 
  So what has changed? Well, nothing, Mr. Guterres said, ''except refugees came to rich countries,'' expanding the crisis from nations like Lebanon, Turkey and Jordan to those in Europe.
  ''That completely changed the picture,'' he added. ''This year, everyone talks about refugees.'' 
  The rush of migrants into Europe, combined with the Continent's fear that Islamic State fighters may cross porous borders to carry out attacks, has stirred new urgency among Western leaders to address the war in Syria and push harder for an end to it.
  They have been huddling on the sidelines of the General Assembly with their rivals from Russia and Iran. They are stepping up aid. And what was seen as a lost cause a few months ago -- a political settlement in Syria -- was the centerpiece of a lunch hosted by Secretary General Ban Ki-moon this week for the foreign ministers of the five permanent members of the Security Council.
  ''I have personally the impression we are waking up to this now because this refugee problem is more visible today to Western eyes,'' Federica Mogherini, the European Union foreign minister, told reporters this week after a meeting with her counterparts from the region. She said she hoped ''this new sense of urgency'' could spur creative ideas toward a political settlement.
  ''I see possible common ground to common diplomatic efforts to bring an end to this war,'' she said.
  On Tuesday night, the German foreign minister corralled his counterparts from some of the world's richest countries -- the Group of 7 -- to pledge aid for Syrian refugees, drumming up $1.8 billion to help the United Nations and the countries still sheltering the bulk of the refugees: Turkey, Lebanon and Jordan.
  But the numbers of migrants heading to Europe are growing quickly. More than 500,000 refugees and migrants have crossed the Mediterranean Sea to reach the Continent this year alone, according to the International Organization for Migration.
  On Wednesday, the secretary general, Mr. Ban, held a session on the sidelines of the General Assembly devoted to tackling the refugee crisis.
  Mr. Ban called on countries to ''significantly boost'' the number of refugees that they accept and create safe, legal channels for refugees and labor migration, something Europe significantly lacks. He also signaled that the exodus could grow, as people escape areas ''ravaged by climate change.''
  In a sign of the anxiety, the standard for what amounts to a political solution in Syria seems to be shifting, too. Some officials who had only recently called for the immediate ouster of the Syrian president, Bashar al-Assad, have been softening their language on when he should leave.
  France, which backed the idea of airstrikes against the Syrian government after accusing it of conducting chemical weapons attacks two years ago, is now carrying out airstrikes against Mr. Assad's enemies on the battlefield, hitting Islamic State forces. The French foreign minister, Laurent Fabius, said Wednesday that France was open to the military operations of Mr. Assad's main ally, Russia, so long as Mr. Assad's air force stopped using barrel bombs and he was willing to agree to a political transition.
  Secretary of State John Kerry echoed the need for political talks on Syria, saying at the Security Council on Wednesday that Mr. Assad would have to ''decline to be part of its long-term future.'' 
  Even on the question of Mr. Assad's departure, there has been a discernible shift. Western diplomats on the Security Council are saying that Mr. Assad would not have to step down right away, but rather at the end of a political transition process. They are also taking pains to say that, having learned from the experience of Iraq, they are keen to avoid a wholesale purge of his government, preferring to sideline ''tens, not hundreds,'' of his associates, as one Security Council diplomat put it, to maintain stability.
  Another Council diplomat said that dismantling Mr. Assad's army would be far too risky in the face of the threat posed by the Islamic State.
  The refugee crisis has become such a central element in the political calculus that it has been used as a rhetorical mortar to lob at rivals.
  When the Russian president, Vladimir V. Putin, called on his Western rivals this week to join his country and the Syrian government to defeat the Islamic State, he clearly poked at European concerns, saying, ''Then, dear friends, there would be no need for new refugee camps.''
  The Saudi foreign minister, Adel al-Jubeir, suggested this week that the Obama administration could have done more to prevent the exodus of Syrians.
  ''The refugee crisis we see now is a product of not enough robust action to bring about change in Syria over four years and this is a direct consequence of it,'' he said.
  Mr. Kerry said Wednesday that everyone needed to act quickly to resolve the conflict ''understanding fully how urgent this is in the context of refugees flowing out, the impact on Europe, the impact on the region.''
  The impact has been felt on both sides of the Atlantic. Last week, the European Union forced through a plan, over the bitter objections of some of its nations, to distribute 120,000 asylum seekers among member states. Only days before, Mr. Kerry  announced that the United States would increase the number of refugees it accepts from around the world each year to 100,000, up from the current annual cap of 70,000.
  ''This topic is a dominant topic indeed,'' the German foreign minister, Frank-Walter Steinmeier, said Tuesday evening in announcing the aid pledges from 17 countries, including the Group of 7.
  ''Sometimes you have to address the most pressing issues and priorities,'' he said. ''Of course, change will only be possible if we succeed in stabilizing Syria, if we succeed in defusing the war situation.''
  Mr. Guterres, the United Nations refugee chief, has asked for just over $4 billion this year to deal with the refugee crisis in Syria, of which only 40 percent has come in.
  But he has other refugees to help, too. Indeed, he has many millions of refugees to help. The number of people displaced around the world is at an all-time high since World War II.
  But Europe is only a fraction of his troubles. To aid refugees fleeing the Central African Republic, for instance, he has to dip into a pot of United Nations money not earmarked for specific crises. Those refugees are far away from Europe. They do not possibly harbor terrorists who can kill Europeans. They do not get the world powers exercised.
  ''You can't imagine how underfunded things are in Africa,'' he said.



+
Lexis+Story+ABSTRACT
The rush of refugees into Europe has prompted new urgency among Western leaders to address the war in Syria and push harder for an end to it. FULL TEXT
Over the last four years, as four million Syrian refugees poured into neighboring countries and slipped inexorably into poverty, António Guterres, the United Nations high commissioner for refugees, said he had pleaded in vain with world leaders to take their plight more seriously.
But suddenly, at the United Nations General Assembly this week, the world's most powerful countries want to meet with him, all of them exercised by the refugee crisis. 
So what has changed? Nothing, he said, ''except refugees came to rich countries,'' expanding the crisis from nations like Lebanon, Turkey and Jordan to Europe.
''That completely changed the picture,'' he added. ''This year, everyone talks about refugees.''
The rush of migrants into Europe, combined with the Continent's fear of Islamic State fighters crossing porous borders to carry out attacks, has stirred new urgency among Western leaders to address the war in Syria and push harder for an end to it.
They have been huddling on the sidelines of the General Assembly with their rivals from Russia and Iran. They are stepping up aid. And what was seen as a lost cause a few months ago - a political settlement in Syria - was the centerpiece of a lunch held by Secretary General Ban Ki-moon this week for the foreign ministers of the five permanent members of the Security Council.
''I have personally the impression we are waking up to this now because this refugee problem is more visible today to Western eyes,'' Federica Mogherini, the European Union's foreign policy chief, told reporters this week after a meeting with foreign ministers from the region. She said she hoped ''this new sense of urgency'' could spur creative ideas toward a political settlement.
''I see a possible common ground to common diplomatic efforts to bring an end to this war,'' she said.
On Tuesday night, the German foreign minister corralled foreign ministers from some of the world's richest countries - the Group of 7 - to pledge aid for Syrian refugees, drumming up $1.8 billion to help the United Nations and the countries still sheltering the bulk of the refugees: Turkey, Lebanon and Jordan.
But the numbers heading to Europe are growing quickly. More than 500,000 refugees and migrants have crossed the Mediterranean Sea to reach the Continent this year alone, according to the International Organization for Migration.
On Wednesday, Mr. Ban is scheduled to hold a session on the sidelines of the General Assembly devoted to tackling the refugee crisis.
In a sign of the anxiety, the standard for what amounts to a political solution in Syria seems to be shifting, too. Some officials who had only recently called for the immediate ouster of the Syrian president, Bashar al-Assad, are now putting their emphasis on getting him to behave better.
France, which backed the idea of airstrikes against the Syrian government after accusing it of conducting chemical weapons attacks two years ago, is now carrying out airstrikes against Assad's enemies on the battlefield, hitting the Islamic State. Its foreign minister, Laurent Fabius, said on Tuesday that France was willing to ''coordinate'' its operations with a major Assad ally, Russia, so long as Mr. Assad's air force put a halt to using barrel bombs.
Secretary of State John Kerry echoed that sentiment, saying on Tuesday in an interview with MSNBC that he hoped Russia and another Assad ally, Iran, could persuade the Syrian president to give up on barrel bombs.
Even on the question of Mr. Assad's departure, there has been a discernable shift. Western diplomats on the Security Council are saying that Mr. Assad would not have to step down right away, but rather at the end of a political transition process. They are also taking pains to say that, having learned from the experience of Iraq, they are eager to avoid a wholesale purge of his regime, preferring to sideline ''tens, not hundreds,'' of his associates, as one Security Council diplomat put it, so as to maintain stability.
Another council diplomat said that dismantling his army would be far too risky in the face of the Islamic State.
The refugee crisis has become such a central element in the political calculus that it has been used as a rhetorical mortar to lob between rivals.
When the President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia called on his Western rivals this week to join his country and the Syrian regime to defeat the Islamic State, he clearly poked at European concerns in the audience, saying, ''Then, dear friends, there would be no need for new refugee camps.''
The Saudi foreign minister, Adel al-Jubeir, suggested this week that the Obama administration could have done more to prevent the exodus of Syrians.
''The refugee crisis we see now is a product of not enough robust action to bring about change in Syria over four years, and this is a direct consequence of it,'' he said.
The impact has been felt on both sides of the Atlantic. Last week, the European Union forced through a plan, over the bitter objections of some of its nations, to distribute 120,000 asylum seekers among member states. Only days before, Mr. Kerry announced that the United States would increase the number of refugees it accepts from around the world each year to 100,000, up from the current annual cap of 70,000.
''This topic is a dominant topic indeed,'' the German foreign minister, Frank-Walter Steinmeier, said Tuesday evening in announcing the aid pledges from 17 countries, including the G-7.
''Sometimes you have to address the most pressing issues and priorities,'' he said. ''Of course, change will only be possible if we succeed in stabilizing Syria, if we succeed in defusing the war situation.''
Mr. Guterres, the United Nations refugee chief, has asked for just over $4 billion this year to address the refuge crisis in Syria, of which only 40 percent has come in.
But he has other refugees to help. Indeed, he has many millions of refugees to help.
Private individual donors have been generous in helping the refugees pouring through Europe, he said, noting that he has gotten about $30 million from ordinary people responding to his plea for money.
But Europe is only a fraction of his troubles. To aid refugees fleeing the Central African Republic, for instance, he has to dip into a pot of United Nations money not earmarked for specific crises. No one is coming forward to help him pay for that refugee crisis. Those refugees are far away from Europe. They don't train terrorists who can kill Europeans. They don't get the world powers exercised.
''You can't imagine how underfunded things are in Africa,'' he said.
+
Lexis+Story+Text of report in English by the Turkish state-funded news agency Anadolu (also known as Anatolia) website
[Unattributed report: "Turkish PM: Assad, Daesh [Da'ish, Arabic acronym for ISIL] 'evils supporting each other'"]  
-There should be no place for Assad, Daesh in new Syria, says Davutoglu
NEW YORK (AA) -A new wave of Syrian refugees can be prevented only with the exit of Syrian President Bashar al-Assad and Daesh's elimination, Turkish Prime Minister Ahmet Davutoglu said Monday [28 September].
"What we need to do is to have solidarity with all the countries, including Russia, to make a transition in Syria, a peaceful transition," Davutoglu told a press conference on the margins of the UN General Assembly in New York. "In the new Syria, there should not be any place for neither Assad nor Daesh."
The Syrian conflict now in its fifth year, has resulted in the deaths of at least 250,000 people, created one of the largest refugee exoduses since the Second World War and caused a security vacuum that paved the way for extremist groups such as Daesh to gain a foothold in the region.
Russia is a staunch ally of Assad.
"The refugee issue, at the beginning of this crisis, had been seen by the international community as a Syrian crisis. Later it was seen as a Turkish or neighbouring countries' crisis. But now it is clear that the refugee issue is a global crisis, a crisis that we cannot ignore. A crisis which we cannot forget," Davutoglu said.
"The only way to prevent a new wave of refugees is to prevent atrocities committed by the Syrian regime and to prevent terrorist organizations like Daesh," he added.
Assad and Daesh are "two evils supporting each other," he said.
The UN refugee agency says 95 per cent of the latest million Syrian refugees have gone to Turkey, which has become the world's largest refugee-hosting country. It is home to more than 2 million registered Syrian refugees.
Davutoglu also reiterated Turkey's call for a safe zone to be created inside Syria to deal with the current refugee crisis.
"We have been telling this for the last three years, but unfortunately that voice of Turkey was not heard enough by the international community. At least I can say now there is a general understanding that refugee issues should be solved inside Syria if possible."
Regarding Daesh, Davutoglu said, "Turkey is ready to cooperate with any country to fight against ISIS, because ISIS is a threat to all of us. But we should not forget that there was no ISIS three years ago. Who created ISIS? Assad's atrocities, war crimes created ISIS, created a power vacuum." ISIS is an English acronym for the militant group.
He also said Daesh and the Assad regime tried to gain legitimacy by using each other -with Daesh telling Sunnis that they should unite against Assad's atrocities and the regime telling the international community that it is needed for any fight against the militants.
"No assad, no ISIS. That should be the future of Syria. For the last four years, this has not been the case," said Davutoglu. 
Source: Anadolu (also known as Anatolia) news agency website, Ankara, in English 0000 gmt 28 Sep 15
+
Lexis+Story+The true value of European Union cooperation will be put to the test through EU efforts to slow down the influx of refugees and illegal migrants from the Middle East, Africa and elsewhere and build a system to assist them in an orderly manner.
The EU recently held a summit of its leaders and pledged at least an additional 1 billion euro (about 130 billion yen) to international organizations, including the Office of the U.N. High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR). This is to support refugees in countries neighboring Syria. 
More than 4 million people have fled Syria, a country where a civil war continues, to such countries as Turkey and Jordan.
To reduce the number of refugees heading for Europe, it is vital to help stabilize the lives of people living as refugees in Syria's neighbors. The EU's assistance can be considered a desperate measure to tackle the refugee crisis, as a path to ending the civil war is not in sight.
The leaders of EU member countries have also agreed on establishing facilities for registering refugees and taking fingerprints in Greece and Italy, European gateways for refugees, by the end of November. It is to differentiate legitimate refugees from illegal migrants. The EU and its member countries will also cooperate in tightening border security.
A thorny problem for the EU is how to fairly share among member countries refugees who have entered Europe.
During a justice and interior ministers' meeting, held prior to the summit talks, the ministers decided that the member countries would jointly take in 120,000 refugees, now hosted by Greece and Italy, over the next two years.
As Hungary, Slovakia and two other East European countries opposed the refugee sharing plan, the ministerial meeting had no other choice but to reach its conclusion through an unusual majority vote.
Sustainable system needed
The number of those refugees applying for European asylum is forecast to top 1 million this year. The latest decision on sharing refugees will be like a drop in a bucket, we think. Building a sustainable system to accept refugees is urgently needed.
The EU has hammered out the latest measures, including one to contain the influx of refugees, as its member countries are alarmed that the large numbers of refugees and migrants crossing their borders will threaten the social stability of their countries.
In Greece, a country burdened with fiscal woes, a far-right anti-immigrant party placed third in the general elections held on Sept. 20.
Germany, an economic powerhouse which has been generous in taking in refugees, began, in the middle of this month, limiting the influx of refugees with border checks. The measures are linked largely to protests by local authorities, whose capacity to accommodate refugees has surpassed their limits due to the upsurge in the influx. Also evident are the activities of ultra-right groups opposed to accepting the refugees.
The influx of refugees into Europe has now become an issue that the international community as a whole must tackle. The United States and Australia have pledged to accept more Syrian refugees.
Japan, for its part, has focused on extending such assistance as the provision of food to refugees in Syria's neighbors and the improvement of water supply systems in these countries, contributing more than 1.1 billion dollar (about 130 billion yen).
It is time for this country to rack its brains on how it can contribute further, in response to the worsening humanitarian crisis.
(From The Yomiuri Shimbun, Sept. 28, 2015)
+
Lexis+Story+EUROPE faces the biggest refugee crisis since the Second World War. Whilst genuine, desperate refugees need help, economic hardship alone should not qualify migrants to be allowed into Europe.
To migrate has become a trend in Syria and a plethora of other countries. 
Whilst poverty and a lack of opportunities are important factors, they do not inevitably lead to migration - many generations in the past suffered as badly if not sometimes worse, but people stayed put. Uprooting has become the thing to do for many, and not because they are desperate but because they are opportunistic and misguided, and modern technologies like access to mass media and social media are to blame.
The war in Syria has lasted for four years now, and many people who migrate have children younger than four years old. To conceive and raise children in a war zone, then to take them on a difficult and dangerous journey is, in my view, irresponsible. They should wait until the war is over or move to a safer environment before starting a family.
Even for countries like Germany taking in more refugees than it can cope with will put a strain on its housing and health, education, and social services. There is also the matter of the effects of refugees on the culture and demography of the host countries. The leaders of Hungary and Slovakia are not racists when they raise the Muslim question. They are prudent to do so.
I'm in favour of the refugees to be treated fairly as human beings in Europe, to have comfortable housing, good education for their children, and equal job opportunities. But their stay in Europe must be a temporary one. Europe is not their long term future. Syria or whichever country they came from, is their future. They must return when it's safe and proper to do so.
The key to the refugee problem is the war in Syria and how to end it. President Assad of Syria is the root cause, but many of his opponents are fighting each other as eagerly as they fight him.
Without a viable alternative in sight I think Assad, however repugnant he is to the West, also has to be the solution in the short term. The West should help him to beat ISIS and other islamist groups. Law and order should be re-established in Syria, albeit more humanely and fairer than before the war, under the supervision of the international community. The long term goal would be to get Assad and his cronies to step down and establish democracy in Syria.
John Foulkes, address supplied.
+
Lexis+Story+President François Hollande of France told the United Nations General Assembly on Monday that his country would ''shoulder its responsibilities'' in global efforts to end the fighting in Syria, but that the conflict could be resolved only if President Bashar al-Assad was removed from power. 
France mounted its first airstrikes against the Islamic State militants in Syria over the weekend. 
  Mr. Hollande told the Assembly that to blame only the Islamic State for the massacres of civilians in Syria would be to pardon ''the regime that created this organization.'' The millions of refugees from Syria who have flooded into neighboring countries and into Europe are not only ''fleeing a war, but fleeing the regime of Bashar al-Assad,'' he said.
  ''Assad is the origin of this problem, and cannot be part of the solution,'' Mr. Hollande said.
  His comments seemed directed at Russia, which has recently stepped up its support for Mr. Assad and has proposed resolving the conflict through talks between his government and opposition groups while an international coalition battles the Islamic State. In a speech earlier on Monday, President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia warned that ousting Mr. Assad would be a mistake.
  Without mentioning Russia by name, Mr. Hollande also criticized its efforts to shield the Syrian government from action by the Security Council. ''In cases of mass atrocities,'' he said, ''the veto should not be used.'' Only the council's five permanent members -- Britain, China, France, Russia and the United States -- wield vetoes.
  Speaking to reporters later in the day, Mr. Hollande said that any resolution to the Syrian conflict must put a stop to the government's use of barrel bombs on populated areas, and must exclude Mr. Assad from any transitional government. The French president also said he had met with Prime Minister Ahmet Davutoglu of Turkey to discuss Turkey's idea of establishing a safe zone in Syria for refugees from the conflict.
  Though France has agreed in principle to accept more refugees from Syria than other European countries have, it has been slow to begin the process, and few refugees seem to want to go there. Mr. Hollande did not address specific numbers of refugees or a timetable in his speech on Monday.
  He did say that the current refugee crisis was partly of the West's making, because too little was done to help refugees who fled from Syria to neighboring Middle East countries earlier in the war.
  Mr. Hollande also discussed environmental issues and an international conference on reducing greenhouse gas emissions that is scheduled to take place in Paris in December. He said the world must ask itself one question: ''Humankind -- is it capable of deciding that we will preserve life on this planet?''



+
Lexis+Story+IMAGINE that the population of Scotland grew by one quarter within four years and that the new arrivals were refugees fleeing war and violence in a neighbouring country. Think about the strain this would place on key infrastructure such as housing, water and public services like health and education.
As a Scot, I often wonder how we would cope under such circumstances. For people in Lebanon, a country only slightly smaller than Scotland, this is the reality facing their country.The same is true for other countries bordering Syria, especially Jordan and Turkey. 
Daily survival is becoming increasingly difficult for the four million refugees who have fled Syria in search of safety in neighbouring countries. For example, it is harder than ever to renew residency visas or register with government authorities; or in some cases with the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR).
Most refugees are forced to accept work and exploitative conditions in the informal economy as they are not allowed to work legally. Lebanon is hosting 1.1 million refugees registered with the UNHCR: 26 per cent of the country's entire population.
With their resources running out, and little hope of the conflict in Syria ending quickly, many refugees rely on humanitarian aid. Yet here, too, they are being let down.
UN agencies such as the World Food Programme have had to drastically cut the relief they provide because donor nations, many wealthy, have not provided the funding they promised.
In my role as Oxfam's policy lead on the Syria crisis, I meet people in camps across Lebanon and Jordan who tell me the cuts to the aid they receive and the uncertain future they face mean they feel they have no option but to risk their lives, and those of their families, by crossing the sea in flimsy boats.
The coverage the attempt by thousands of refugees to travel to Europe has generated has had at least one benefit: a surge in compassion and support for refugees. However, we must remember that the EU's population is at least 100 times that of Lebanon with its economy some 400 times larger.
Despite this, Lebanon hosts more than three times the number of refugees who arrived in Europe this year. This alone should place the sometimes hysterical reaction of politicians and commentators in Europe in greater perspective.
Europe is facing a crisis of political will, not a refugee crisis. It has the resources and capacity to host all those arriving on its shores both safely and humanely. The millions of people who have fled violence in Syria are the ones living through an unprecedented crisis, struggling every day to find safety, food and shelter.
While the public support shown for refugees across Europe has finally pushed some political leaders to take much-needed action to resettle refugees directly from the region, it is very disheartening to hear governments squabble over their respective responsibilities. There are measures all governments must undertake if we are to have any chance of avoiding this humanitarian crisis getting any worse.
We need more safe and legal routes to third countries and a radically scaled-up aid response to those living in countries bordering Syria. It is sometimes argued that we must either support those people in camps in Lebanon, Jordan or Turkey or offer refuge to those who have already made it to Europe.
This is a false choice: we must do both. People in Scotland, and elsewhere, can help by continuing to support agencies such as Oxfam. In Syria, Jordan and Lebanon, we have reached more than 1.6 million people with life-saving clean water, sanitation and vital support for families who have lost everything.
Recently, agencies have had to cut back food assistance to refugees because of lack of money,  making a precarious situation even worse.
Ultimately, governments must do much more to end the violence in Syria. It is the brutality of the conflict - mortar attacks and bombings often carried out using arms and ammunition manufactured by powerful countries - that is at the heart of this human catastrophe.
Unless and until governments work together to end the conflict, people will continue to flee Syria in search of a safe future for themselves and their families.
I'd do the same. Wouldn't you?
Daniel Gorevan is Oxfam's policy lead on the Syria crisis. You can donate to Oxfam's Emergency Appeal on the Refugee Crisis at www.oxfam.org.uk/refugee
+
Lexis+Story+As Canadians are about to vote in an upcoming federal election, the Syrian refugee crisis looms large in the electoral platforms of the three major parties. Yet none of the parties has stopped for a moment to ask a fundamental and historic question, one that should inform all or any policy toward Syria and its explosion of refugees trying to reach our shores: what is Syria and what is a Syrian?
Until 1917, there never was a Syrian state, nor was there an ethnic group that was called Syrians. Yet students of history have always been justly confused when they read about "ancient" Syria, "medieval" Syria or "modern Syria," as if it had a clear historical or ethnic identity. That is because these are academic and political labels invented by academics and politicians and then projected backwards across time. Syria always, however, referred to a territory, not to a people, and certainly not to a Muslim people.
Until the end of the First World War, only a tiny number of Arabicspeaking people in the eastern Mediterranean called themselves Syrians. This was a new thing, and in those days most of them were Christian. 
In Old Testament Hebrew, the word "Siryon" is the name for Mount Hermon, a snowy mountain in the Golan Heights. Syria is itself a Greek word. Its first occurrence is in a play by the ancient Greek playwright, Aeschylus. In 440 BC, the Greek writer Herodotus (and the first anthropologist) used the word to describe what is now central Turkey. The Greek-speaking Seleucids, who ruled the east after Alexander the Great, used the word to refer to their territories in southwest Asia.
The Romans used the word to describe their territories between Asia Minor (modern Turkey) and Roman Egypt. The Christian Byzantines then adopted the Roman usage. The Muslim Arabs, with their fixation on Mecca and Medina, called the same area "Bilad as Sham," the Land of the North (north of Mecca), as they say in Arabic.
It was American and European Protestant missionaries who, in the 19th century, introduced the word into the area that now bears it name. First, Arabic-speaking Christians adopted the name and only then did local Muslims use the term in their writings. From there, it entered the local historical lexicon in a book called the History of Syria, written by Yurji Janni in 1881. But at that time, what later became the state of Syria was a group of disparate and separately administered districts under the authority of the Ottoman Sultans, who ruled the area from Istanbul.
Interestingly, those who brought the word back into common usage in the late 19th century often used it to refer to what are now Israel, Jordan, Syria and Lebanon, mirroring the Greek usage after the breakup of Alexander's empire. Some enthusiasts, both foreign and local, argued that "Greater Syria" even included a territory that extended as far west as the coastal city of El Arish on the Mediterranean coast of the Sinai desert in Egypt. Simply put, there has never been any agreement as to the geographical nature of Syria or its boundaries.
So it is no surprise that in 1976, the late president of Syria, Hafiz el Assad (the current dictator's father) said to a delegation from the PLO, "You do not represent Palestine as much as we do. Do not forget one thing: there is no Palestinian people, no Palestinian entity, there is only Syria! You are an integral part of the Syrian people and Palestine is an integral part of Syria. Therefore it is we, the Syrian authorities, who are the real representatives of the Palestinian people."
In 1921, that part of the eastern Mediterranean, which was not part of Mandatory Palestine (what was to become Israel and Transjordan) became the League of Nations Mandate for Syria Lebanon, under French protection. In 1946, the French recognized an independent Syrian Arab Republic. Two years later, this newly created State of Syria invaded the newly declared State of Israel, for they believed that it was not Palestine, but part of Syria and, in their estimation, they should rule there.
Who are the people who have lived in Syria since 1920? The most ancient were the Jews, who had lived in Damascus, Aleppo and the villages of Syria since before the Roman Empire. In 1948, many fled the country as the Syrian army attacked Israel from the north. Those Jews who were left behind were often arrested, tortured and executed by the regime for the imagined crime of "Zionism." Eventually, most Syrian Jews fled the country and moved to Israel and the Western democracies. There are no Jews left in modern Syria.
Then there are the Armenians (Christians), who had managed to escape the genocide of Armenians perpetrated by the Ottoman Muslims before and after the First World War. They lived largely in the main cities such as Damascus and Aleppo. Alongside them, there have dwelt a variety of small Christian communities, many of whom traced their origins to the Byzantine Empire, and some of whom may have been descendants of the early followers of Jesus of Nazareth and St. Paul.
These Eastern Orthodox Christians are divided between Jacobite and Greek Orthodox. Catholics include Melkite, Syrian, Armenian, Nestorian and Maronites, as well as followers of the Latin rite. Then there are Assyrians (Nestorians) not in communion with Rome, and various small groups of Protestants, who were successfully missionized by 19th-century Europeans and who brought the concept of "Syria" to these and other disparate peoples. Then there are the Muslims who are the demographic majority.
Divisions among the Muslims are also complicated. The ruling and secretive Alawi comprise a heterodox Muslim minority who claim to be Shia, but are not quite accepted by other Shia groups, such as those in Iran. The president of Syria is an Alawi, as are most of his government bureaucrats and soldiers. And so, one take on the ongoing Syrian civil war is that it is a war of the Alawi against the rest. But that is complicated by the Druze, a secretive sect of people who are not quite Muslim, who always support whoever is in power. In Lebanon, they support the government, as they do in Israel. However, in Syria, over the last few months, it looks like they have decoupled themselves from the Alawi. That could change now that the Russians have boots on the ground in Syria.
Syria is also home to Sunni Muslim Kurds who - as Kurdish nationalists first, Muslims second and Syrians last - would prefer an independent state that would merge with the Kurds of eastern Turkey and northern Iraq. Finally, the largest ethnic group in the country are Sunni Arabs who once dreamed of a united Arab world, from Morocco to Iraq, but who are now reduced to warring, clan-based militias, many of whom are fundamentalists and want a Sharia-based state (with slavery, beheadings and the like), alongside like-minded supporters of the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL). Then there are groups that support no one but themselves and are, in essence, tribally based brigands.
How have these disparate groups interacted with each other during the last century? Not very well at all! In 1912, K.T. Khairallah wrote that: "Syrian society did not exist in the past. There was nothing but distinct and hostile groups. It was a vast cluster of disparate elements brought together through conquest and held together under one authority by terror and tyranny. Each element jealously retained its traditions, customs and livelihood, ignoring that of its neighbour. ... Society was based on despotism of brutal force, modelled on that of the ruler."
This 1912 version of multiculturalism is not to be envied. And sadly, not much has changed since then. In fact, things have gotten worse. There are now large numbers of Syrians - both the perpetrators of, and the victims of, the long-term violence and inter-ethnic persecution that characterizes the country's modern history - who wish to come to our shores. How should our government respond?
First of all, the Canadian government and all the major political parties must recognize that the explosion of Syrian refugees is an Arab problem. The Arab League countries have the money, the space and the resources to absorb, either temporarily or permanently, every Arabicspeaking person who no longer feels safe in that war torn country.
Certainly, a country like Saudi Arabia, with an annual budget of $229 billion, can afford to take care of its Arab and Muslim "brothers" from Syria. This would be in the spirit of Article Two of the Founding Charter of the Arab League, which clearly states: "The purpose of the League is to draw closer the relations between member States and co-ordinate their political activities with the aim of realizing a close collaboration between them, to safeguard their independence and sovereignty, and to consider in a general way the affairs and interests of the Arab countries."
NATO states, such as Canada, should call on the member states of the Arab League, especially the oilrich nations of the Gulf and Saudi Arabia, to shoulder what is clearly an Arab crisis, caused by Arabs. (For example, Qatar alone has given $3 billion to the Syrian rebels). Were the Arab states to do so and shoulder the burden, the refugees would not have to learn a new language. As Muslims, they will be living and working in a culture where their religion is the state religion and where they can communicate and work effectively. Perhaps one day, they may even go home to Syria. Why this is not happening is anyone's guess. But it is certainly within our rights as Canadians to demand this minimal humanitarian gesture from the Arab League.
Second of all, Canada and the NATO states should open their doors first to the various minorities from Syria who have nowhere to go as they are not welcome in the Arab states, and who fear in any case they would fare no differently than they did in Syria, where they were second class citizens. This is because, as Christians, they have never been granted equal rights by law in the land of their birth, a right that we extend to all citizens and refugees who come to our shores.
Third, Canada should reject anyone who was a high-ranking member of the Syrian Army, who has blood on his or her hands or who has fought in any way with any of the militias or terrorist groups, such as ISIL or Hezbollah, that have massacred civilians and which Canada officially has designated a terror organization.
Finally, the government should match contributions, dollar for dollar, from Canadian community groups that would sponsor innocent families and individuals from any ethnic group or religion - Muslim, Christian, Druze or Alawi - who want to escape this horrible civil war and who are not committed to a stealth Jihad by demanding the application of Sharia law once they get settled here in Canada.
Canada should also assertively demand that the oil rich countries of Arabia and the Gulf provide our government with the funds to assist these kinds of refugees, whether they be Muslim or Christian. The Syrian civil war has been inflamed by the Gulf states, the Saudis, the Iranians and now the Russians. It is only just and fair that they pay their fair share for the human suffering they have created, and which has driven these refugees from their homeland. The recent offer by the Saudi government to build scores of mosques for Syrian refugees in Europe is laughable. Why should the cost of absorbing refugees created by ISIL, which is financed by the Saudis, fall on the shoulders of the ordinary Canadian taxpayer?
Simply put, a multi-ethnic country like Canada needs a multi-ethnic refugee policy that deals with each community in Syria according to its own self-definition, not ours. There is no Syrian people, nor has there ever been - only different ethnic communities, divided and opposed, one against the other. If we do not recognize this bald ethnographic fact, then we are doing those refugees that come from what was once the state of Syria, a grave disservice. They deserve better.
National Post
Geoffrey Clarfield is an anthropologist at large. Salim Mansur teaches political science at Western University in London, Ont. !@COPYRIGHT=© 2015 Postmedia Network Inc. All rights reserved.
+
Lexis+Story+As Canadians are about to vote in an upcoming federal election, the Syrian refugee crisis looms large in the electoral platforms of the three major parties. Yet none of the parties has stopped for a moment to ask a fundamental and historic question, one that should inform all or any policy towards Syria and its explosion of refugees trying to reach our shores: what is Syria and what is a Syrian?
Until 1917, there never was a Syrian state, nor was there an ethnic group that was called Syrians. Yet students of history have always been justly confused when they read about "ancient" Syria, "medieval" Syria or "modern Syria," as if it had a clear historical or ethnic identity. That is because these are academic and political labels invented by academics and politicians and then projected backwards across time. Syria always, however, referred to a territory, not to a people, and certainly not to a Muslim people. Until the end of the First World War, only a tiny number of Arabicspeaking people in the eastern Mediterranean called themselves Syrians. This was a new thing, and in those days most of them were Christian. 
In Old Testament Hebrew, the word "Siryon" is the name for Mount Hermon, a snowy mountain in the Golan Heights. Syria is itself a Greek word. Its first occurrence is in a play by the ancient Greek playwright, Aeschylus. In 440 BC, the Greek writer Herodotus (and the first anthropologist) used the word to describe what is now central Turkey. The Greek-speaking Seleucids, who ruled the east after Alexander the Great, used the word to refer to their territories in southwest Asia.
The Romans used the word to describe their territories between Asia Minor (modern Turkey) and Roman Egypt. The Christian Byzantines then adopted the Roman usage. The Muslim Arabs, with their fixation on Mecca and Medina, called the same area "Bilad as Sham," the Land of the North (north of Mecca), as they say in Arabic.
It was American and European Protestant missionaries who, in the 19th century, introduced the word into the area that now bears it name. First, Arabic-speaking Christians adopted the name and only then did local Muslims use the term in their writings. From there, it entered the local historical lexicon in a book called the History of Syria, written by Yurji Janni in 1881. But at that time, what later became the state of Syria was a group of disparate and separately administered districts under the authority of the Ottoman Sultans, who ruled the area from Istanbul.
Interestingly, those who brought the word back into common usage in the late 19th century often used it to refer to what are now Israel, Jordan, Syria and Lebanon, mirroring the Greek usage after the break-up of Alexander's empire. Some enthusiasts, both foreign and local, argued that "Greater Syria" even included a territory that extended as far west as the coastal city of El Arish on the Mediterranean coast of the Sinai desert in Egypt. Simply put, there has never been any agreement as to the geographical nature of Syria or its boundaries.
So it is no surprise that in 1976, the late president of Syria, Hafiz el Assad (the current dictator's father) said to a delegation from the PLO, "You do not represent Palestine as much as we do. Do not forget one thing: there is no Palestinian people, no Palestinian entity, there is only Syria! You are an integral part of the Syrian people and Palestine is an integral part of Syria. Therefore it is we, the Syrian authorities, who are the real representatives of the Palestinian people."
In 1921, that part of the eastern Mediterranean, which was not part of Mandatory Palestine (what was to become Israel and Transjordan) became the League of Nations Mandate for Syria Lebanon, under French protection. In 1946, the French recognized an independent Syrian Arab Republic. Two years later, this newly created State of Syria invaded the newly declared State of Israel, for they believed that it was not Palestine, but part of Syria and, in their estimation, they should rule there.
Who are the people who have lived in Syria since 1920? The most ancient were the Jews, who had lived in Damascus, Aleppo and the villages of Syria since before the Roman Empire. In 1948, many fled the country as the Syrian army attacked Israel from the north. Those Jews who were left behind were often arrested, tortured and executed by the regime for the imagined crime of "Zionism." Eventually, most Syrian Jews fled the country and moved to Israel and the Western democracies. There are no Jews left in modern Syria.
Then there are the Armenians (Christians), who had managed to escape the genocide of Armenians perpetrated by the Ottoman Muslims before and after the First World War. They lived largely in the main cities such as Damascus and Aleppo. Alongside them, there have dwelt a variety of small Christian communities, many of whom traced their origins to the Byzantine Empire, and some of whom may have been descendants of the early followers of Jesus of Nazareth and St. Paul.
These Eastern Orthodox Christians are divided between Jacobite and Greek Orthodox. Catholics include Melkite, Syrian, Armenian, Nestorian and Maronites, as well as followers of the Latin rite. Then there are Assyrians (Nestorians) not in communion with Rome, and various small groups of Protestants, who were successfully missionized by 19th-century Europeans and who brought the concept of "Syria" to these and other disparate peoples. Then there are the Muslims who are the demographic majority.
Divisions among the Muslims are also complicated. The ruling and secretive Alawi comprise a heterodox Muslim minority who claim to be Shia, but are not quite accepted by other Shia groups, such as those in Iran. The president of Syria is an Alawi, as are most of his government bureaucrats and soldiers. And so, one take on the ongoing Syrian civil war is that it is a war of the Alawi against the rest. But that is complicated by the Druze, a secretive sect of people who are not quite Muslim, who always support whoever is in power. In Lebanon, they support the government, as they do in Israel. However, in Syria, over the last few months, it looks like they have decoupled themselves from the Alawi. That could change now that the Russians have boots on the ground in Syria.
Syria is also home to Sunni Muslim Kurds who - as Kurdish nationalists first, Muslims second and Syrians last - would prefer an independent state that would merge with the Kurds of eastern Turkey and northern Iraq. Finally, the largest ethnic group in the country are Sunni Arabs who once dreamed of a united Arab world, from Morocco to Iraq, but who are now reduced to warring, clan-based militias, many of whom are fundamentalists and want a Sharia-based state (with slavery, beheadings and the like), alongside like-minded supporters of the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL). Then there are groups that support no one but themselves and are, in essence, tribally based brigands.
How have these disparate groups interacted with each other during the last century? Not very well at all! In 1912, K.T. Khairallah wrote that: "Syrian society did not exist in the past. There was nothing but distinct and hostile groups. It was a vast cluster of disparate elements brought together through conquest and held together under one authority by terror and tyranny. Each element jealously retained its traditions, customs and livelihood, ignoring that of its neighbour....
Society was based on despotism of brutal force, modelled on that of the ruler."
This 1912 version of multiculturalism is not to be envied. And sadly, not much has changed since then. In fact, things have gotten worse. There are now large numbers of Syrians - both the perpetrators of, and the victims of, the long-term violence and inter-ethnic persecution that characterizes the country's modern history - who wish to come to our shores. How should our government respond?
First of all, the Canadian government and all the major political parties must recognize that the explosion of Syrian refugees is an Arab problem. The Arab League countries have the money, the space and the resources to absorb, either temporarily or permanently, every Arabicspeaking person who no longer feels safe in that war torn country.
Certainly, a country like Saudi Arabia, with an annual budget of $229 billion, can afford to take care of its Arab and Muslim "brothers" from Syria. This would be in the spirit of Article Two of the Founding Charter of the Arab League, which clearly states: "The purpose of the League is to draw closer the relations between member States and co-ordinate their political activities with the aim of realizing a close collaboration between them, to safeguard their independence and sovereignty, and to consider in a general way the affairs and interests of the Arab countries."
NATO states, such as Canada, should call on the member states of the Arab League, especially the oilrich nations of the Gulf and Saudi Arabia, to shoulder what is clearly an Arab crisis, caused by Arabs. (For example, Qatar alone has given $3 billion to the Syrian rebels). Were the Arab states to do so and shoulder the burden, the refugees would not have to learn a new language. As Muslims, they will be living and working in a culture where their religion is the state religion and where they can communicate and work effectively. Perhaps one day, they may even go home to Syria. Why this is not happening is anyone's guess. But it is certainly within our rights as Canadians to demand this minimal humanitarian gesture from the Arab League.
Second of all, Canada and the NATO states should open their doors first to the various minorities from Syria who have nowhere to go as they are not welcome in the Arab states, and who fear in any case they would fare no differently than they did in Syria, where they were second class citizens. This is because, as Christians, they have never been granted equal rights by law in the land of their birth, a right that we extend to all citizens and refugees who come to our shores.
Third, Canada should reject anyone who was a high-ranking member of the Syrian Army, who has blood on his or her hands or who has fought in any way with any of the militias or terrorist groups, such as ISIL or Hezbollah, that have massacred civilians and which Canada officially has designated a terror organization.
Finally, the government should match contributions, dollar for dollar, from Canadian community groups that would sponsor innocent families and individuals from any ethnic group or religion - Muslim, Christian, Druze or Alawi - who want to escape this horrible civil war and who are not committed to a stealth Jihad by demanding the application of Sharia law once they get settled here in Canada.
Canada should also assertively demand that the oil rich countries of Arabia and the Gulf provide our government with the funds to assist these kinds of refugees, whether they be Muslim or Christian. The Syrian civil war has been inflamed by the Gulf states, the Saudis, the Iranians and now the Russians. It is only just and fair that they pay their fair share for the human suffering they have created, and which has driven these refugees from their homeland. The recent offer by the Saudi government to build scores of mosques for Syrian refugees in Europe is laughable. Why should the cost of absorbing refugees created by ISIL, which is financed by the Saudis, fall on the shoulders of the ordinary Canadian taxpayer?
Simply put, a multi-ethnic country like Canada needs a multi-ethnic refugee policy that deals with each community in Syria according to its own self-definition, not ours. There is no Syrian people, nor has there ever been - only different ethnic communities, divided and opposed, one against the other. If we do not recognize this bald ethnographic fact, then we are doing those refugees that come from what was once the state of Syria, a grave disservice. They deserve better.
Geoffrey Clarfield is an anthropologist at large. Salim Mansur teaches political science at Western University in London, Ont. !@COPYRIGHT=© 2015 Postmedia Network Inc. All rights reserved.
+
Lexis+Story+THE refugee crisis that landed on Europe's doorstep and so forcefully garnered the word's attention with that heart-wrenching photo has taken a back seat to recent dramatics in Canberra. But Australia's response to the crisis in Syria is the Turnbull Government's maiden test of foreign policy.
The first strikes by Australian fighter planes against Daesh were carried out last week, only hours before Malcolm Turnbull became Prime Minister. 
Military historians will judge whether it was a wise strategy to commit Australian Air Force jets to Syria. As a humanitarian agency with a century-long history of helping children impacted by war, our experience tells us it won't help solve the conflict, which began long before most people had ever heard of Islamic State.
But Australia has started the raids and as they continue, it must uphold its obligation to protect children and other civilians.
This year alone, nine schools supported by Save the Children in Syria have been hit by air strikes. Last year, a Save the Children-supported school in Syria was impacted by air strikes 21 times. Barrel bombs dropped from aircraft have landed in playgrounds and classrooms, putting children in the path of lethal shrapnel and exploding ordnance. They have forced entire schools to shut down.
Australia must ensure the weapons it drops don't inadvertently add to that suffering.
But regardless of how many bombs Australia drops, this crisis can only be solved by a political solution. And the people of Syria are crying out for one.
Now the Turnbull Government must prioritise working with other members of the international community to broker peace in Syria. It's the only long-term solution that will see civilians protected and the momentum of extremist groups halted. Until then, we must embrace humanity rather than our military muscle.
The Abbott government's pledge to resettle 12,000 Syrian and Iraqi refugees was a generous downpayment of Australian compassion, as was its pledge to give $44 million in humanitarian funding to support those affected by the Syria and Iraq crises.
But we can and must do more. There is no end in sight to the Syrian conflict, so Australia must increase its ongoing annual intake of refugees to 30,000 and not just for Syrians and Iraqis but refugees from all countries.
Globally, more than 60 million people have been forced from their homes because of conflict. It is the greatest movement of humanity since World War II and Australia must play a greater role in permanently resettling those who are most vulnerable.
Likewise, Australia's funding pledge to the Syrian refugee crisis sounds generous, and it is. But in order for Australia to contribute its fair share to the UN's Syria appeal, still only a third funded, we need to give about $100 million more in 2015.
The benefits of playing our part on aid are twofold: not only does it save lives by providing things like food, education and clean drinking water; it helps improve regional stability, which serves Australia's national interest.
Public pressure amplified by a compassionate and persuasive Australian media played a commendable role galvanising support for Syrian refugees. We must not let this outpouring of Australian generosity falter.
In 41/2 years of Syrian bloodshed, more than 250,000 people have been killed and entire villages have been wiped out. Almost a quarter of the country's schools have been destroyed or used as shelters. A staggering 12 million Syrians are in need of humanitarian assistance right now, almost half of them children.
IN the case of Lebanon, where I live, a quarter of the country's current population are Syrian refugees - equivalent to Australia taking in an extra eight million people, or the combined populations of Melbourne, Brisbane and Perth. Lebanon hosts more refugees per capita than any other country. In the 18 months I have lived there, I see more and more children begging on the street or going without adequate food, medical assistance, education, or even a roof over their heads.
I've also seen the heartbreaking loss of hope for too many Syrians, most of whom want nothing more than to return to their homes and to live without fear or destitution.
Meanwhile, Syria, once a drawcard for travellers in the Middle East with its ancient sites and winding bazaars, is barely a skerrick of its former self.
If the world fails to capitalise on support for refugees and make serious commitments to find lasting peace, an entire generation of Syrian children will also be lost to horror, violence, and despair.
The Turnbull Government has an important role and must go beyond the humanitarian commitments to Syria made by the Abbott government in its final weeks. There is no end in sight to this conflict, not yet, and so Australia must be more committed and generous than ever before. We can and we must do more.SARAH IRELAND, FROM BRISBANE, IS SAVE THE CHILDREN'S HUMANITARIAN ADVISER BASED IN BEIRUT
+
Lexis+Story+European leaders have completed emergency talks on the migrant crisis - but immediately faced warnings that the "greatest tide" of refugees is yet to come.
Heads of state were locked in talks for more than five hours as they attempted to overcome bitter divisions to secure a unified response to the crisis.
Following the meeting, European Council president Donald Tusk said they had taken a step in the right direction, but warned the "greatest tide of migrants and refugees is yet to come" and said the policy of "open doors and windows" must be corrected. 
Before the summit in Brussels, David Cameron committed an extra £115 million to tackle the emergency, which the Prime Minister announced as he arrived at the summit. 
An extra £100 million will be given to help refugees displaced in camps in countries neighbouring war-ravaged Syria, taking the UK's contribution in the region to £1.1 billion.
In addition, the UK will provide £14.5 million towards aid in Europe, the Western Balkans and North Africa, including £2 million for agencies in Libya.
Mr Cameron called on leaders to adopt a "comprehensive approach" and called for more to be done in nations which have seen dramatic exoduses in an effort to stop the thousands entering Europe.
"We need to do more to stabilise the countries and regions from which these people are coming," he said.
EU leaders discussed the crisis over a three-course dinner in the Belgian capital. 
More than five hours after the meeting started, Mr Tusk announced proposals for more than one billion euros would be mobilised to ease the crisis.
He said leaders agreed to give extra help to countries neighbouring Syria such as Jordan, Turkey and Lebanon.
Mr Tusk said: "It is clear that the greatest tide of refugees and migrants is yet to come. Therefore we need to correct the policy of open doors and windows. 
"Leaders also agreed that the current chaos at our external borders must end."
Mr Tusk added: "The measures we have agreed today will not end the crisis but they are all necessary steps in the right direction."
Earlier this week interior ministers agreed a controversial plan to relocate 120,000 refugees currently in Italy, Greece and Hungary among the member states.
The scheme provoked a furious row, with four former eastern bloc states - Slovakia, Romania, Hungary and the Czech Republic - voting against, while Finland abstained.
Britain exercised its right to opt out of the scheme. 
Following the summit, European Commission president Jean-Claude Juncker said the meeting took place in a "better-than-expected atmosphere". 
A statement issued after the meeting said the leaders "decided on a number of immediate priorities".
It added: "We all recognised that there are no easy solutions."
The statement called for "operational decisions" on a number of steps within weeks, including:
:: A response to the needs of refugees with additional funds of at least one billion euros;
:: Assistance for Lebanon, Jordan, Turkey and other countries affected by a mass exodus from Syria;
:: Help for Western Balkans nations in handling refugee flows;
:: Tackling the "dramatic" situation at Europe's external borders, with strengthened controls;
:: Help for countries on the front line to process and fingerprint migrants at so-called "hotspots".
The document concluded: "We urge institutions, agencies and member states to accelerate their work on all aspects of the migration crisis."
Ukip leader Nigel Farage expressed concerns over the options open to Christians seeking sanctuary.
Appearing on BBC Newsnight, presenter Kirsty Wark asked Mr Farage: "The Hungarian PM has said Europe and European identity is rooted in Christianity. 
 "Is it not worrying that Europe is not able to keep Europe Christian? Do you believe that there should be a differential between people from a Judeo-Christian and people from other backgrounds?" 
Mr Farage replied: " On a strict refugee definition no, although I have heard some ludicrous comments from Mr Juncker and Mr Cameron that religion should not be a part of this. 
 "Of course it should, and actually, one of the most persecuted groups in Iraq and Syria are the Christian community, and it's quite clear from Mr Cameron's programme that he won't be taking a single Christian, so you could argue that for a Christian they've got nowhere to go any more from those countries, and that they should have some measure." 
He also said: "My real concern is not about the religion of people that come, it's that we are opening our doors to jihadism, and that is the single most serious threat from this whole crisis."
Downing Street said Mr Cameron and US president Barack Obama agreed progress on a political solution to end the Syrian conflict was needed given the number of refugees fleeing and the threat posed by the so-called "Islamic State".
Russia is also building up its military in Syria in support of President Bashar Assad's regime.
A Number 10 spokesman said of the call between Mr Cameron and Mr Obama: " Their discussions focused on the situation in Syria. 
 "They agreed that the increasing number of refugees fleeing the country and the threat from Isil underlined the need to make progress on political transition to end the Syria conflict." 
+
Lexis+Story+The confusion and panic sparked by the mass exodus from Syria has brought relations between west and eastern Europe to a new low. Objecting to the European Commission's scheme for compulsory quotas, Viktor Orban, the Hungarian prime minister, accused Germany yesterday of "moral imperialism". Similar frustration is being vented across central Europe, which has until recently viewed Angela Merkel, the German chancellor, as its natural champion.
Europe is being torn between north and south, east and west. The EU border states, south and east, complain that they have been left alone to deal with the inflow of refugees and economic migrants. Donald Tusk, president of the European Council, warns that "the future of Schengen, the sense of order in Europe" are under threat. 
In the interest of the EU, and of the refugees themselves, the response to their plight has to be shaped in a more coherent way. A cool-headed appraisal has to be made of what is best for those fleeing ruined homes in the Middle East. It is legitimate to demand European solidarity, as Mrs Merkel does, but the quota system as currently proposed seems neither fair nor effective.
As central European leaders noted at yesterday's summit, there is no guarantee that refugees will stay in the country allocated to them. As long as people can travel freely in the Schengen zone, there is no obstacle to refugees moving on. The courts will soon be full of desperate people lodging appeals. Diplomacy will be dominated by the anger engendered by the European Community warnings that are to be handed out to states deemed in breach of asylum procedures.
A share-out of refugees, imposed by Brussels, will feed far-right populism. And the present numbers, the seemingly modest 120,000, will rise as more turn up at the doorstep. The voluntary principle has to be Europe's guide. The most vulnerable, the young, the abused and the traumatised, should be taken in by those countries best equipped to help them. That is what Britain is doing, and rightly so. It must match this compassion with a calculation as to how much specialised care it can offer these damaged people. This places the actual needs of victims ahead of arbitrary quotas.
Britain will come under pressure to sign up to the Brussels quotas, even though it has opted out of the Schengen zone. Denmark and Ireland, which also enjoy opt-outs, have agreed nonetheless to take an official contingent. Neither of these countries contributes a fraction of the aid money paid by Britain in support of those in refugee camps along the Syrian border. As winter approaches these camps are running out of money. This is not the moment to divert assistance to setting up large-scale accommodation for refugees in Britain. Aid money goes further and is more helpful to the displaced and to the ultimate rebuilding of Syria.
Britain's focus must now be on helping the buckling refugee host countries, Jordan, Lebanon and Turkey. Many Syrian child refugees have lost years of education in the camps. Schooling has to be improved there. Syria's post-Assad future is in those encampments not in converted barracks in east Germany. The British government must make this case more forcefully and persuade others to step up their efforts.
It is not often that Germany is accused of short-termism. Yet its offer of sanctuary to such huge numbers is just that. It does not begin to address the problem of Syrian needs when the fighting dies down and the country, drained of its youth, must rebuild. Britain's priority is to bring back hope and a sense of the future to the refugees in the camps of the Middle East. Compared with this task, the EU arguments about which country should take a few more refugees is an unseemly diversion.
+
Lexis+Story+The confusion and panic sparked by the mass exodus from Syria has brought relations between west and eastern Europe to a new low. Objecting to the European Commission's scheme for compulsory quotas, Viktor Orban, the Hungarian prime minister, accused Germany yesterday of "moral imperialism". Similar frustration is being vented across central Europe, which has until recently viewed Angela Merkel, the German chancellor, as its natural champion.
Europe is being torn between north and south, east and west. The EU border states, south and east, complain that they have been left alone to deal with the inflow of refugees and economic migrants. Donald Tusk, president of the European Council, warns that "the future of Schengen, the sense of order in Europe" are under threat. 
In the interest of the EU, and of the refugees themselves, the response to their plight has to be shaped in a more coherent way. A cool-headed appraisal has to be made of what is best for those fleeing ruined homes in the Middle East. It is legitimate to demand European solidarity, as Mrs Merkel does, but the quota system as currently proposed seems neither fair nor effective.
As central European leaders noted at yesterday's summit, there is no guarantee that refugees will stay in the country allocated to them. As long as people can travel freely in the Schengen zone, there is no obstacle to refugees moving on. The courts will soon be full of desperate people lodging appeals. Diplomacy will be dominated by the anger engendered by the European Community warnings that are to be handed out to states deemed in breach of asylum procedures.
A share-out of refugees, imposed by Brussels, will feed far-right populism. And the present numbers, the seemingly modest 120,000, will rise as more turn up at the doorstep. The voluntary principle has to be Europe's guide. The most vulnerable, the young, the abused and the traumatised, should be taken in by those countries best equipped to help them. That is what Britain is doing, and rightly so. It must match this compassion with a calculation as to how much specialised care it can offer these damaged people. This places the actual needs of victims ahead of arbitrary quotas.
Britain will come under pressure to sign up to the Brussels quotas, even though it has opted out of the Schengen zone. Denmark and Ireland, which also enjoy opt-outs, have agreed nonetheless to take an official contingent. Neither of these countries contributes a fraction of the aid money paid by Britain in support of those in refugee camps along the Syrian border. As winter approaches these camps are running out of money. This is not the moment to divert assistance to setting up large-scale accommodation for refugees in Britain. Aid money goes further and is more helpful to the displaced and to the ultimate rebuilding of Syria.
Britain's focus must now be on helping the buckling refugee host countries, Jordan, Lebanon and Turkey. Many Syrian child refugees have lost years of education in the camps. Schooling has to be improved there. Syria's post-Assad future is in those encampments not in converted barracks in east Germany. The British government must make this case more forcefully and persuade others to step up their efforts.
It is not often that Germany is accused of shorttermism. Yet its offer of sanctuary to such huge numbers is just that. It does not begin to address the problem of Syrian needs when the fighting dies down and the country, drained of its youth, must rebuild. Britain's priority is to bring back hope and a sense of the future to the refugees in the camps of the Middle East. Compared with this task, the EU arguments about which country should take a few more refugees is an unseemly diversion.
+
Lexis+Story+DavidCameron was today set to back calls for millions more to be poured into a cash-strapped food programme for refugees in the Syria region to stem the flow of migrants to Europe. 
The Prime Minister is to urge EU leaders to focus greater efforts on dealing with the refugee crisis at its source. It comes after Germany and France pushed through a scheme, against the will of some eastern European countries, for a quota system to offer sanctuary to 120,000 asylum seekers who have crossed the Mediterranean.
Britain has opted out of the scheme but it will foot part of its costs through its EU contributions and is also accepting 20,000 refugees from camps in countries neighbouring Syria over the next five years. Millions of people have fled from Syria to Jordan, Lebanon, Turkey and other countries to avoid the civil war and Islamic State terror.
But the World Food Programme has had to drop one-third of Syrian refugees from its food voucher scheme in Middle Eastern countries this year, down from 2.1 million to 1.4 million.
The value of the vouchers has also been slashed, to £9 per person per month for many refugees.
Read more
                     Jordanian Queen's plea to Europe: Don't turn your back on refugees 
                     Justine Greening: businesses should donate to help refugees 
                     David Cameron warns refugees: Stop risking lives crossing the Med                   
The Food Programme has warned it needs £154 million to keep its scaled-back relief effort going through November and Mr Cameron was expected at an EU summit in Brussels to back European countries coming forward to meet some of this shortfall.
After talks between the Prime Minister and French president François Hollande at Chequers last night, a Downing Street spokeswoman said: "They agreed that we must use the European Council to focus on a more comprehensive approach, in particular increasing assistance for the countries neighbouring Syria to enable more refugees to stay there.
"They also agreed that EU countries should do more to return migrants who don't have a genuine claim for asylum to their countries of origin."
The two leaders are also seeking to inject "momentum in the political process" to try to break the deadlock over reforms to end the civil war. The West insists President Assad must go as part of a political solution but his ally Russia has sent planes, tanks and troops to Syria to prop up his regime.
Foreign Secretary Philip Hammond believes the migrant crisis could help the UK to renegotiate its EU membership, also discussed by Mr Cameron and Mr Hollande.
+
Lexis+Story+DAVID CAMERON was today set to back calls for millions more to be poured into a cash-strapped food programme for refugees in the Syria region to stem the flow of migrants to Europe. 
The Prime Minister is to urge EU leaders to focus greater efforts on dealing with the refugee crisis at its source. It comes after Germany and France pushed through a scheme, against the will of some eastern European countries, for a quota system to offer sanctuary to 120,000 asylum seekers who have crossed the Mediterranean.
Slovakia's prime minister Robert Fico said his country would challenge the compulsory quota system in court, and he vowed not to implement it.
Britain has opted out of the scheme but it will foot part of its costs through its EU contributions and is also accept-ing 20,000 refugees from camps in countries neighbouring Syria over the next five years. Millions of people have fled from Syria to Jordan, Lebanon, Turkey and other countries to avoid the civil war and Islamic State terror.
But the World Food Programme has had to drop one-third of Syrian refugees from its food voucher scheme in Middle Eastern countries this year, down from 2.1 million to 1.4 million.
The value of the vouchers has also been slashed, to £9 per person per month for many refugees.
The Food Programme has warned it needs £154 million to keep its scaledback relief effort going through November and Mr Cameron was expected at an EU summit in Brussels to back European countries coming forward to meet some of this shortfall.
After talks between the Prime Minister and French president François Hollande at Chequers last night, a Downing Street spokeswoman said they agreed Europe must focus "on increasing assistance for the countries neighbouring Syria to enable more refugees to stay there. They also agreed EU countries should do more to return migrants who don't have a genuine claim for asylum to their countries."
The two leaders also want to inject "momentum in the political process" to break the deadlock over reforms to end the civil war. The West insists President Assad must go as part of a political solution but his ally Russia has sent planes, tanks and troops to Syria to prop up his regime.
Foreign Secretary Philip Hammond believes the migrant crisis could help the UK to renegotiate its EU membership. @nicholascecil Editorial Comment Page 14
+
Lexis+Story+DAVID CAMERON was today set to back calls for millions more to be poured into a cash-strapped food programme for refugees in the Syria region to stem the flow of migrants to Europe. 
The Prime Minister is to urge EU leaders to focus greater efforts on dealing with the refugee crisis at its source. It comes after Germany and France pushed through a scheme, against the will of some eastern European countries, for a quota system to offer sanctuary to 120,000 asylum seekers who have crossed the Mediterranean.
Britain has opted out of the scheme but it will foot part of its costs through its EU contributions and is also accepting 20,000 refugees from camps in countries neighbouring Syria over the next five years. Millions of people have fled from Syria to Jordan, Lebanon, Turkey and other countries to avoid the civil war and Islamic State terror.
But the World Food Programme has had to drop one-third of Syrian refugees from its food voucher scheme in Middle Eastern countries this year, down from 2.1 million to 1.4 million.
The value of the vouchers has also been slashed, to £9 per person per month for many refugees.
The Food Programme has warned it needs £154 million to keep its scaledback relief effort going through November and Mr Cameron was expected at an EU summit in Brussels to back European countries coming forward to meet some of this shortfall.
After talks between the Prime Minister and French president François Hollande at Chequers last night, a Downing Street spokeswoman said: "They agreed that we must use the European Council to focus on a more comprehensive approach, in particular increasing assistance for the countries neighbouring Syria to enable more refugees to stay there.
"They also agreed that EU countries should do more to return migrants who don't have a genuine claim for asylum to their countries of origin."
The two leaders are also seeking to inject "momentum in the political process" to try to break the deadlock over reforms to end the civil war. The West insists President Assad most go as part of a political solution but his ally Russia has sent planes, tanks and troops to Syria to prop up his regime.
Foreign Secretary Philip Hammond believes the migrant crisis could help the UK to renegotiate its EU membership, also discussed by Mr Cameron and Mr Hollande. @nicholascecil Editorial Comment Page 14
+
Lexis+Story+THE first of 20,000 Syrian refugees to be taken in by the UK have arrived, with preparations "well under way" for some of them to be settled in Scotland. 
It marks the first step to fulfilling David Cameron's promise to resettle 20,000 Syrians over the next four-and-a-half years by expanding the vulnerable persons resettlement scheme.
They will not immediately be granted full asylum status, giving them a right to settle, but instead a humanitarian status that will allow them to apply for asylum at the end of five years.
The Scottish Government said the country will take its "fair share" of those who have already arrived in the UK.
A spokesman added preparations were "well under way" for the resettlement.
First Minister Nicola Sturgeon has already said if there were to be arrivals this week, they would likely number in "the tens".
David Cameron discussed the crisis with French President Francois Hollande at Chequers last night. A Downing Street spokesman said the leaders had agreed to use today's European Council meeting to focus on a "more comprehensive approach" to migration.
He added that this involved, in particular, "increasing assistance for the countries neighbouring Syria to enable more refugees to stay there.
"They also agreed that EU countries should do more to return migrants who don't have a genuine claim for asylum to their countries of origin."
The spokesman added that they had discussed how a "big part" of the answer to the refugee crisis was a solution to the Syria conflict.
They agreed on the need to inject momentum into the country's political process and expressed a shared concern about the threat that Isil poses to national security.
News of the first arrivals came as the European Union voted to back a plan to relocate 120,000 refugees in the continent through a quota scheme, which Britain will not take part in.
A Home Office spokeswoman said: "We are working closely with the UNHCR (the UN's refugee agency) and local authorities to make sure we are ready to welcome more Syrians who desperately need our assistance."
+
Lexis+Story+Estonian PM: EU must support Syria's neighbors to reduce refugee pressure
TALLINN, Sep 23, BNS - Europe must find more means to help Syria's neighboring countries to alleviate migration pressure, Estonian Prime Minister Taavi Roivas said. 
"The 1.8-billion-euro trust fund proposed by the European Commission is a good start but needs are substantially greater," said Roivas who will take part in an extraordinary migration-themed summit of EU leaders in Brussels on Wednesday evening.
"The worse the situation becomes in the first destination countries of war refugees, like Lebanon, Jordan and Turkey, the more likely it is that the people will take on the life-threatening journey to Europe," Roivas said and added that therefore more money must be contributed into improving the conditions of refugee camps by, for instance, building schools and developing the infrastructure.
According to the head of government Estonia is ready to help member states that are in a crisis situation as well as third countries influenced by the refugee crisis.
"There is no magic solution to solve the refugee crisis but the decision adopted yesterday regarding the relocation of 120,000 refugees shows that Europe can move forward in the situation. It is the first step toward the solution," Roivas said on Wednesday when commenting on Tuesday's decision of EU interior ministers.
According to Roivas the Schengen system is based on mutual confidence and rules, and therefore it is important that these are fulfilled the same way everywhere.
EU heads of state and government are to discuss on Wednesday evening in Brussels implementing a package of necessary measures to alleviate and manage the refugee crisis.
Tallinn newsroom, +372 610 8852, sise@bns.ee
Baltic News Service
+
Lexis+Story+BEIRUT - Europe's refugee crisis shows signs that it will intensify in the coming weeks as more war-weary Syrians in Lebanon and Jordan scramble to join the extraordinary flow of people trying to reach the continent, according to aid workers and Syrians.
Nearly 2 million of Syria's refugees reside in the small Arab countries, where they face tightening restrictions, growing tension with locals and decreasing support from international aid agencies. Motivated by desperation and scenes of people arriving in Europe, many are selling their few remaining possessions to pay for the treacherous journeys, the aid workers and Syrians said.
U.N. officials also have observed a sharp rise in the number of refugees in Jordan who are trying to transit via Turkey by doing the unthinkable: crossing through war-torn Syria.
"I am going back into hell," Zeid Saad, 28, a refugee from the Damascus countryside, said recently as he prepared to enter Syria from Jordan with his wife. After living in Jordan for two years, he said, he had run out of money and hope. 
After the civil war started in 2011, overwhelming numbers of Syrians began pouring into neighboring Lebanon and Jordan. The countries had pre-conflict populations of only about 4.2 million and 6.1 million people, respectively.
Syrian refugees have since exhausted savings, faced harsh restrictions on employment and lost optimism that their country's raging war will end anytime soon. Falling donations, moreover, have forced aid agencies to greatly scale back support to refugees. The World Food Program has slashed its per-capita food allowances, which are now less than $14 a month for many Syrians, and stopped food aid for tens of thousands of other Syrians.
Many, as a result, appear to be leaving for Europe, said Joel Millman, a spokesman for the International Organization for Migration.
"There are signs that this trend is starting to build," he said.
Heightened border restrictions in countries such as Croatia and Hungary appear to be adding urgency to the exodus.
"I've been trying to get a visa, but now I think I'll just have to get on a boat like everyone else," said Wael, 34, a Syrian from Aleppo who has lived in Lebanon for two years. He declined to give his last name because of security concerns.
About half of the more than 380,000 migrants and refugees who have pursued asylum in Europe this year are Syrian. It is unclear precisely where they are coming from. U.N. officials and aid workers said that many are coming directly from Syria, but also from Jordan, Lebanon and Turkey, which hosts more than 1.9 million U.N.-registered Syrian refugees. Iraq and Egypt also host Syrians.
More than 4 million Syrians have become refugees because of the war, which has killed 250,000 people and displaced about half the country's population of 22 million.
The outflow appears to have been hastened by the Syrian government's decision this year to allow its embassies to issue - and renew - passports to citizens, including many refugees, who left the country without going through formal border crossings. That has enabled more Syrians to travel by boat or plane to countries such as Turkey.
At Syria's embassy in Jordan, about 10,000 passports have been issued or renewed in recent weeks, the Associated Press reported, citing a Syrian diplomat.
Meanwhile, low-income families in Lebanon and Jordan are pooling thousands of dollars required for smuggling fees to send a father or son to Europe, hoping he can eventually find a way to bring over the rest, aid workers say. "You see this happening with those who have been stuck in these countries for the longest," said an official with one international humanitarian group, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because of a lack of authorization to discuss the topic.
U.N. officials have observed a surge in refugees returning to Syria from Jordan, with many of them hoping to reach Europe through Turkey. In July, about 60 a day were returning to Syria. By this month, the number had reached nearly 200 on some days, said Andrew Harper, the U.N. High Commissioner for Refugees' representative in Jordan.
Jordan's military operates buses that shuttle Syrians from the country's Zaatari refugee camp to an undisclosed location at the border. Syrians then make a journey northward that is fraught with attacks by government forces and extremist groups such as the Islamic State.
More than 600,000 Syrian refugees in Jordan have registered with the United Nations. Jordan's government says it hosts about 1.3 million Syrians. Many choose informal land routes to Turkey because they cannot afford airfare or because they lack travel documents, or both.
Ahmed Abu Walid, 30, is preparing to leave Syria on Sunday after three years in Jordan. He expressed concern about encounters with the Islamic State, also known as ISIS.
"The eastern route is off-limits. That is ISIS territory," he said as he planned his trip.
In Lebanon, where 1 in every 4 people is a refugee from the neighboring conflict, many Syrians are too poor to make the journey to Europe. But others aren't, and they are leaving in greater numbers, Lebanese officials said.
At the port in the northern Lebanese city of Tripoli, officials said the number of Syrians taking boats to Turkey more than doubled from July to August. Many of those departures include people traveling directly from Syria, but a senior port official said boats are increasingly being filled by refugees who had been living in Lebanon.
"We're seeing a big increase in the number of Syrian refugees who are leaving," said the port official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to discuss the issue.
Residents of Palestinian refugee camps in Lebanon, which have housed many Syrians during the crisis, also have observed an outflow in recent weeks.
"In the past month and a half, 25 of my Syrian friends have left the camp," said Abdul Hamid Omar, 22, who fled Syria more than two years ago for the Bourj el-Barajneh camp near Beirut. One of his Syrian neighbors in the camp, Abu Musa, just arrived in Germany with his wife and six children, he said.
Yehia, a 34-year-old Palestinian resident of Beirut's Shatila camp, said that scores of Syrians living in the area have been selling their furniture, jewelry and gold to pay the smuggling fees to reach Europe. Many have left, making the camp feel a little less crowded, he said.
As he prepared to leave Jordan for Europe, Saad, the refugee from the Damascus countryside, expressed concern about the precarious journey through Syria. But he had no other choice, he said as he clutched his wife's hand.
"We either live in dignity or die trying," he said.
hugh.naylor@washpost.com
Luck reported from Jordan. Suzan Haidamous and Sam Alrefaie in Beirut contributed to this report.
Bilal Hussein
AP
A Syrian refugee looks out from her family's tent during a sandstorm in a refugee camp in Lebanon's Bekaa Valley. (Bilal Hussein/AP)
+
Lexis+Story+We are in the middle of a humanitarian crisis, dealing with people fleeing Syria and elsewhere. Half of those arriving in Europe are coming directly from Syria while others are fleeing Afghanistan, Iraq and other war-torn countries. 
It's worth remembering that the substantial majority seek refuge in neighbouring countries rather than taking the risky journey to Europe. Article 14 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights says everyone has the right to seek and enjoy asylum from persecution in other countries.
There is clearly a need for a co-ordinated European Union-wide approach to those arriving, alongside humanitarian support for those countries shouldering the burden in countries neighbouring war-torn zones.
Moreover, solving the conflict in Syria and elsewhere through diplomatic and political means is also a vital but far from easy component in any durable resolution.
The Northern Ireland Life and Times Survey of 2012 revealed that public opinion here is more positive on immigration than in Great Britain. Recent rallies and events support this. Northern Ireland's willingness to take part in the UK Government's Syrian Vulnerable Persons Relocation Scheme is particularly welcome.
The Refugee and Asylum forum locally has identified key actions that could be delivered by the Northern Ireland Executive.
They include a long-term commitment to funding the Syrian refugee settlement, as the UK Government is only guaranteeing funds for the first year; developing a refugee integration strategy to co-ordinate and monitor interventions and develop initiatives to ensure refugees from Syria, or elsewhere, do not face destitution; providing access to free accredited English language classes for those who need it and making the OFMDFM crisis fund a permanent arrangement.
Harnessing the energy of and funding local refugee support organisations is also essential to ensuring a safe and sustainable programme for refugees.
Despite our political difficulties, the forum's action points are readily achievable. We are not impotent. The old adage of think globally, act locally has never been more apposite.

+
Lexis+Story+WE are in the middle of a humanitarian crisis, dealing with people fleeing Syria and elsewhere. Half of those arriving in Europe are coming directly from Syria while others are fleeing Afghanistan, Iraq and other war-torn countries. 
It's worth remembering that the substantial majority seek refuge in neighbouring countries rather than taking the risky journey to Europe. Article 14 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights says everyone has the right to seek and enjoy asylum from persecution in other countries.
There is clearly a need for a co-ordinated European Union-wide approach to those arriving, alongside humanitarian support for those countries shouldering the burden in countries neighbouring war-torn zones.
Moreover, solving the conflict in Syria and elsewhere through diplomatic and political means is also a vital but far from easy component in any durable resolution. The Northern Ireland Life and Times Survey of 2012 revealed that public opinion here is more positive on immigration than in Great Britain. Recent rallies and events support this. Northern Ireland's willingness to take part in the UK Government's Syrian Vulnerable Persons Relocation Scheme is particularly welcome.
The Refugee and Asylum forum locally has identified key actions that could be delivered by the Northern Ireland Executive.
They include a long-term commitment to funding the Syrian refugee settlement, as the UK Government is only guaranteeing funds for the first year; developing a refugee integration strategy to co-ordinate and monitor interventions and develop initiatives to ensure refugees from Syria, or elsewhere, do not face destitution; providing access to free accredited English language classes for those who need it and making the OFMDFM crisis fund a permanent arrangement.
Harnessing the energy of and funding local refugee support organisations is also essential to ensuring a safe and sustainable programme for refugees.
Despite our political difficulties, the forum's action points are readily achievable. We are not impotent. The old adage of think globally, act locally has never been more apposite.
Les Allamby is chief commissioner of the Northern Ireland Human Rights Commission
+
Lexis+Story+ David Cameron will press European leaders to deport more economic migrants and pay more aid to countries neighbouring war-ravaged Syria to help ease the migration crisis. 
Ahead of an emergency Brussels summit of European Union leaders, the Prime Minister welcomed French president Francois Hollande to Chequers, where the pair agreed on areas to push for more action.
Britain has given £1 billion in aid - more than any other EU nation - to countries neighbouring Syria that have taken in millions of refugees. 
The leaders met hours after the first of the 20,000 Syrian refugees to be accepted into the Government's expanded resettlement programme arrived in Britain and EU interior ministers approved a divisive scheme to relocate 120,000 refugees from Italy, Greece and Hungary.
The new EU quota system has proved controversial as Slovakia, Romania, Hungary and the Czech Republic voted against it, while Finland abstained, and concerns have been raised about the lack of unanimous support among the 28 member states.
Britain is not required to take part in the scheme as it is not part of the Schengen "borderless" area and Home Secretary Theresa May reaffirmed her opposition to it ahead of the vote.
After speaking for more than an hour on the migration crisis, the situation in Syria and climate change, Mr Cameron and Mr Hollande held late-night talks on the Prime Minister's proposed renegotiation of Britain's EU membership.
Mr Cameron's attempts to win support have not been helped by his refusal to sign up to the Franco-German refugee resettlement plan but the PM has continually raised Britain's aid contribution as evidence that the country is playing its part.
Mr Cameron is also expected to use tomorrow's summit to urge EU leaders to do more to tackle people-smuggling gangs.
In a statement, the European Commission acknowledged the need to tackle the "route causes" of the crisis and potential action to tackle "instability" in Europe and pressures on neighbouring countries will be raised at the leaders' summit.
Mr Cameron and Mr Hollande also agreed on the need to defeat the Islamic State, also known as Isil, and to secure a global deal at the United Nations climate change conference in Paris later this year.
During the Chequers meeting, a Downing Street spokesman said: "The Prime Minister has welcomed President Hollande to Chequers on his first visit there.
"Before dinner, they held detailed discussions for over an hour on the migration crisis, the situation in Syria and climate change.
"On migration, they agreed that we must use tomorrow's European Council to focus on a more comprehensive approach, in particular increasing assistance for the countries neighbouring Syria to enable more refugees to stay there. They also agreed that EU countries should do more to return migrants who don't have a genuine claim for asylum to their countries of origin.
"They discussed how a big part of the answer to the refugee crisis must be a solution to the situation in Syria and they agreed on the need to inject momentum into the political process there. They expressed their shared concern about the threat that Isil poses to our national security and agreed that we should keep working together as part of the coalition to defeat Isil and to counter this terrorist threat.
"Finally, the Prime Minister underlined the UK support for French efforts to secure a global climate deal in Paris later this year. They both agreed to use talks at the UN General Assembly meeting next week to build further support for a deal, including on financial contributions.
"Talks will continue over dinner, with the focus on EU reform and the UK renegotiation."
+
Lexis+Story+The United States will give $419 million more in humanitarian aid to assist Syrian refugees and the countries that are hosting them, administration officials said Monday.
The new aid brings the total U.S. donation since the Syrian conflict began in 2011 to $4.5 billion, more than any other country. It was announced a day after Secretary of State John F. Kerry said the United States would raise its annual refugee resettlement cap from 70,000 this fiscal year to 85,000 next year and 100,000 in 2017. 
The United States has been the single largest donor of humanitarian aid to Syrians who have been displaced within their war-torn country or who have become refugees. But the administration has been criticized for not admitting more Syrians to the United States in the face of an epic wave of people fleeing the war zone.
President Obama has directed the State Department and the Department of Homeland Security to prepare for the arrival of at least 10,000 Syrians in the next 12 months. Some members of Congress and humanitarian groups have said the United States could handle the resettlement of 100,000 refugees from Syria, in addition to tens of thousands of people who are fleeing persecution and war in other countries around the world.
Officials say they hope that humanitarian aid helps make conditions more bearable in refugee camps, so that Syrians are more likely to stay in the region until the situation stabilizes and they can return home.
White House press secretary Josh Earnest said Monday that the refugee crisis will be solved not by admitting refugees to the United States but by ending the regime of Syrian President Bashar al-Assad and confronting the threat from Islamic State militants who have established a self-declared caliphate in part of Syria.
Much of the latest donation will go directly to groups working with refugees. The largest share will go to the U.N. High Commissioner for Refugees and the U.N. Children's Fund. According to the U.S. Agency for International Development, the money will be used for medical care, including vaccinations; safe drinking water; and food and shelter.
Humanitarian groups have had to cut back much of their assistance as donations have dried up during the prolonged war, which has turned more than 4 million Syrians into refugees and displaced more than 7 million within their country. 
The United Nations has less than 40 percent of what it needs to help Syrians, and its agencies cut aid to some refugees in order to provide aid to those who are more vulnerable.
The U.S. donation will also assist governments and communities in the Middle East that are coping with massive numbers of Syrians seeking safety in neighboring countries. Turkey has taken in almost 2 million Syrians, while both Lebanon and Jordan are hosting about 1 million each.
Syrian refugees are arriving in the United States at a quickening pace. More were admitted in the first three weeks of September than in all of 2014.
 More on the Syrian refugee crisis: 
15,000 more refugees to be resettled in U.S. next year
The big myth about refugees: Refugees can be an investment, rather than a burden
In sign of U.S. alarm, Washington and Moscow begin talks over Syria conflict
carol.morello@washpost.com
+
Lexis+Story+Text of report in English by the Turkish state-funded news agency Anadolu (also known as Anatolia) website
[Unattributed report: "Turkey Reiterates Call for Syria Safe Zone"] 
ANKARA (AA) - Turkey on Friday [18 September] renewed its call for establishing safe zones within Syria.
"Turkey still thinks that areas must be created in some regions at least to make those people to feel safe," Turkish Foreign Minister Feridun Sinirlioglu told a joint press conference with his German counterpart Frank-Walter Steinmeier in the Turkish capital, Ankara. 
The Turkish foreign minister also said that Syrian President Bashar al-Assad "is already buried in history as a leader who declared war on its own people."
"Assad cannot have a role anymore in Syria's future," said Sinirlioglu, adding that as long as he stayed in power, Syrians will continue to suffer from chaos and confusion in the country.
-'Turkey's role about Syrian refugees is invaluable'
The German foreign minister applauded Turkey's policy on Syrian refugees.
"We know how hard it is to host more than 2 million refugees," said Steinmeier, adding that Europe should make a call for helping Syria's and Iraq's neighbours shouldering the burden.
Steinmeier said Turkey is an important power in the region and a country whose input is vital to find an end to the conflict in Syria.
"I am sure that Turkey will be successful in its efforts for solving this problem," he said.
In a separate press appearance Friday in Ankara with Luxembourg's Foreign Minister Jean Asselborn, Sinirlioglu said the EU wanted to cooperate with Turkey for the solution of the refugee crisis.
"We welcome this yet the first thing to do is to end the crisis in Syria. The elimination of this issue [the refugee crisis] is not possible unless the crisis and the civil war in Syria ends. There are people there that live under the oppression of a cruel regime and flee the country only to survive."
"We can keep these people in their country when we create a place for them to live under protection, a safe zone to be secure from the barrel bombs. As the international community and the EU we should work all together to make this happen."
Sinirlioglu also said Turkey hosts the highest number of refugees in the world. According to the UN, there are 1.9 million Syrian refugees registered in Turkey alone as of Aug. 25.
The UN estimates that more than 250,000 victims have died since the civil war began and 10 million have been displaced - 6 million internally.
Asselborn said: "It is necessary to create safe zones and we see that humanitarian aids are insufficient. We need to work for ending the conflict. We need to evaluate the reasons that lead these people to leave their country."
Asselborn also said that the EU cannot close its doors on this "tragedy".
Europe is facing its biggest refugee crisis in decades, with thousands of asylum seekers from Middle East and African countries trying to reach western Europe.
During the press conference with Asselborn, the Turkish foreign minister also touched on recent PKK attacks and the security operations against the terrorist group. "What is happening in Turkey right now is that our security forces are carrying out operations to establish public order against the attacks by the PKK terror organization. Considering this [PKK terrorism] as a 'problem related to Kurds' is out of question for us."
"The issue here is that attacks are launched by a terrorist organization. Turkey is resolved to give the necessary response to these attacks. Nobody can threaten the public order in Turkey and none of our friends can criticize for what Turkey is doing to establish the public order."
Following a suicide bomb attack in July - blamed on Daesh - in the southeastern province of Sanliurfa that killed over 30 people, the terrorist PKK organization has renewed armed attacks especially targeting Turkish military and police forces.
Since July, more than 100 members of the security forces have been martyred and hundreds of PKK terrorists killed in operations across Turkey and northern Iraq, including airstrikes. 
Source: Anadolu (also known as Anatolia) news agency website, Ankara, in English 1656 gmt 18 Sep 15
+
Lexis+Story+ABSTRACT
Refugees who cannot get assistance where they are will risk travel, aid officials say, especially when Europe seems to beckon. FULL TEXT
One of the prime reasons for the wave of migrants, refugees and asylum seekers washing into Europe is the deterioration of the conditions that Syrians face in Lebanon, Jordan and Turkey, a worsening largely caused by sharp falls in international funding from United Nations countries, officials and analysts say.
That shortfall in funding, in contrast with the greater resources provided by Europe, is prompting some to make the hazardous journey who might otherwise remain where they are. The United Nations Syria Regional Refugee and Resilience Plan, which groups a number of humanitarian agencies and covers development aid for the countries bordering Syria, had by the end of August received just 37 percent of the $4.5 billion appeal for needed funds this year. 
António Guterres, the high commissioner for refugees, recently said that his agency's budget this year would be 10 percent smaller than in 2014, and that it could not keep up with the drastic increase in need from the long Syrian conflict, which includes shelter, water, sanitation, food, medical assistance and education. The United Nations refugee agency's funding for Syria this year is only at 43 percent of budgeted requirements.
The World Food Program, another United Nations agency that is a cornerstone of refugee aid, has also been making painful cuts. It is more than 63 percent underfunded for 2015, the agency said, and recently had to halve the monthly stipend to 211,000 Syrians in regional refugee camps.
It also recently halted aid to 230,000 Syrian refugees living in Jordan outside camps. According to the World Food Program, there will be further cuts, and 100,000 people living in refugee camps could find their food support stopped entirely in November.
The World Health Organization is only 27 percent funded.
Refugees who cannot get assistance where they are will risk travel, aid officials say, especially when Europe seems to beckon.
''The conditions are now so bad or overstretched in neighboring countries that the people fleeing Syria are choosing, or have no other choice but, to go straight to Europe,'' said Melissa Fleming, chief spokeswoman for Mr. Guterres and the refugee agency. About 70 percent of registered Syrian refugees living in Lebanon, for example, are below the poverty line, creating tensions with local inhabitants for jobs and health services. About a quarter of Lebanon's population is now Syrian.
Abeer Etefa, a spokeswoman for the World Food Program in the Middle East, said that ''the crisis is going into its fifth year, and there is some sign of fatigue among donor countries.''
Needs are outpacing resources, she said. ''Many Syrians have fled to neighboring countries and they are losing hope and are desperate, no longer able to meet basic needs: getting food, paying rent, keeping children in schools.''
It is difficult to know how many Syrian refugees are leaving safe but uncomfortable berths in camps and cities in the region to come to Europe, and how many are coming directly from Syria, said Andrej Mahecic, a United Nations refugee agency official.
Ali, 38, is a refugee from Aleppo, who has been in Jordan since 2011. He thought the fighting would end in months, but his savings of $2,000 are gone, and the $700 a month he got from aid agencies to cover food, rent and school fees has been cut in half.
With a family of 10, including Hazem, 13, who is handicapped, Ali has received warnings from the police for working without a permit. So he collects discarded soda cans for recycling from midnight to dawn and makes about $8 a night.
Syrians used to get free health care, but that ended last year, he said, so he must pay for Hazem's medication.
Ms. Etefa of the World Food Program said she saw a ''growing sense of despair'' in the refugees. Before, ''they were hopeful that the war would end, but now they are so desperate they will take all kinds of drastic measures. Only those with money take a gamble and go to Europe.''
''Governments need to reprioritize,'' Ms. Fleming said. ''If they can't prevent and stop the wars, at a minimum they need to help the victims - Europe should not be surprised if people from the region are deciding to come here if they're not being helped where they are.''
+
Lexis+Story+Text of report by German newspaper Welt am Sonntag website on 20 September
[Interview with Development Assistance Minister Gerd Mueller by Karsten Kammholz and Claus Christian Malzahn; place and date not given: "'Money is There' - Minister Mueller on Crash Programme for Refugees, EU as Humanitarian Great Power"] 
[Passage omitted] 
[Welt am Sonntag] Mr Mueller, ever since you have taken up office in late 2012, you have been warning of a refugee crisis in Europe. Obviously, no-one listened. Are you powerless as a minister?  
[Mueller] On the contrary - I have strong support and more funds for crisis zones at my disposal than any other development assistance minister before me. Yet Germany is unable to resolve the problems alone. Of the 12 million refugees from Syria and nearby, 5 per cent came to Europe, to us in Germany; 95 per cent are still in the region. We must send a strong signal now: you should not all come here - we come to you and help you where you are. 
[Welt am Sonntag] Germany and Europe give the impression as if no-one here saw the refugee crisis coming. 
[Mueller] Those who wanted to see could see it coming. Until now, the war in Syria cannot be stopped and has even become more brutal as a result of the terror unleashed by the IS [Islamic State - ISIL]. So far, Germany has given 1.5 billion euros to support Jordan, Lebanon, and Turkey, which bear the brunt of the refugee influx. We have built accommodation, schools, health and trauma centres, and water supply systems. We cannot stand idly by when the UN organizations are now running out of money to provide food on the ground. This is why my ministry allocates 20 million euros as emergency relief to the World Food Programme. This helps to feed some 500,000 Syrian refugees in the region for three months. I hope that other states will follow our example. 
[Welt am Sonntag] Has Europe understood at all that it is responsible for the crisis zones on its doorstep? 
[Mueller] No, it has not. And I am profoundly disappointed with that. The debacle over a fair distribution of the refugees is a continuation of the utter helplessness it has displayed in coping with the refugee crisis in and around Syria. This is why I will continue to campaign for a 10 billion euro crash programme of the EU. The money is there, in the EU's development funds, allocated for the next seven years. 
[Welt am Sonntag] And still, nothing is happening. 
[Mueller] This is the real drama. We need the money now before an entire region collapses under the burden of the war in Syria. A total of 5 billion euros needs to be allocated immediately, while the other half must be spent to set up decent reception centres along the EU's southern borders, meaning, above all, in Italy and Greece. This is the practical aspect that we should have taken care of over the past few months already. The other, the diplomatic aspect, is much more difficult. I see the urgent need for the UN Security Council to deal with the issue to take a first step towards a ceasefire and safe zones in Syria on the basis of the Iran format together with the United States, Russia, and the regional powers. 
[Welt am Sonntag] Your party colleague, former Interior Minister Hans-Peter Friedrich, fears that Germany allowed many ISIL fighters and Islamist sleepers in without any controls. Do you share his concern? 
[Mueller] The decision to re-introduce border controls was absolutely necessary. We had to return to an orderly procedure, naturally also because of security aspects. We do not only have huge responsibility for the people coming here in great desperation, but also for our own population. We will only maintain our security in Europe and in Germany if we have a European strategy - in political and economic terms - for the Middle East and the stabilization of North Africa. With regard to security, I also watch the development in Afghanistan with great concern. The situation there is extremely tense; the quick pullout of the international troops must be reconsidered. We must not put the successful developments achieved in Afghanistan at risk. When the Afghan security authorities are unable to stabilize the situation, hundreds of thousands of Afghans will hit the road. 
[Welt am Sonntag] Will Germany and other EU member states be able to stop the refugees with the help of border controls? 
[Mueller] Border controls alone are no solution. It does not suffice either to transfer a few million euros to UNICEF [United Nations Children's Fund] and the UNHCR [United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees] for food packages, even if that is now an acute need. We now need an overall approach that helps to improve the infrastructure for millions of people around Syria. Here, I would like to see the flag of the EU as a humanitarian great power flying that gives also the Lebanese, Jordanians, and Turks the feeling that Europe does not leave them to their own devices in their efforts to help millions of refugees. Water supply, schools, health centres, and vocational training are key and also help the local population to cope with the pressure. In some classes in Lebanese schools, one in two children is from a refugee family; in Jordan, one of the most arid countries in the world, the poorest share the little they have. In many villages, there are now living as many refugees as locals. And in Turkey, which has taken in nearly 2 million refugees, people in the border areas with Syria live in a state of emergency. Here, Europe could demonstrate every day that we want to be a community of shared values. 
[Welt am Sonntag] What does your ministry specifically do to provide help in the refugee crisis? 
[Mueller] We do not have to hectically reset our programmes because we have been focusing on fighting the reasons making people flee for nearly two years already. A total of 60,000 Syrian children are able to attend school in Lebanon; 800,000 people in Jordan now have water and 200,000 have electricity. In Egypt, 25,000 young people are in vocational training. In Africa, after the Ebola crisis, health care has been significantly improved, for example. My ministry has a special unit and a special refugee commissioner to be able to respond to changes anytime; apart from that, we work flat out to implement our infrastructure programme in the areas around Syria and Northern Iraq. 
[Welt am Sonntag] Does that suffice? 
[Mueller] At the moment, we invest more than 1 billion euros in direct refugee assistance. More than 12 billion euros has been earmarked to fighting the causes of displacement over the entire legislative period. Every euro that we spend in the countries where the refugees come from saves many times the amount we would need to look after refugees here in Germany. The funds spent in and around Syria have an effect that is 10 to 20 times higher than it would be in Germany. Let us take schooling, for example. The cost for a child going to school in the Middle East is 10 euros per week; here in this country, it would cost many times more. 
[Welt am Sonntag] While countries such as Sweden, Denmark, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, and Britain spend more than 0.7 per cent of their economic performance on development assistance, Germany's contribution is stagnant at 0.4 per cent, which is a clear miss of the UN Millennium Development Goals. Is that not rather embarrassing in view of the good budgetary situation? 
[Mueller] No, it is not. In absolute figures, development assistance spending doubled during Angela Merkel's term of office. Nevertheless, I stick to the 0.7-per cent target. Yet I would like to refer to other figures: the governments of the world spend 130 billion on development aid and 1,300 billion on defence. This must change, just as our way of consumption, which also contributes to causes of migration. When 20 per cent of humanity exploit 80 per cent of the world's resources, it is high time for fair trade and sustainable consumption. We must not just exploit the resources in developing countries, but also need to create fair employment structures on the ground and pay a fair price for the products and the work done. Here, multinational corporations need to be obliged to provide more transparency. 
[Welt am Sonntag] Could you give us an example? 
[Mueller] Apple and others sell their smartphones for a lot of money. The companies must guarantee to pay living wages and observe minimum ecological standards - and this is true for all globally operating companies when they need resources from developing countries for their products and also produce them there. Each of our mobile phones contains coltan from mines in Africa and Asia. And it also applies to plantations growing cocoa, coffee, bananas, or cotton. 
[Welt am Sonntag] Why do you take Apple, above all, to task? 
[Mueller] This is just an example. Apple is a global player with profits running into billions and a lot of power. This is why the company must take responsibility. After all, there is a growing number of positive examples for fair value chains, such as Germany's textile industry that has joined our fair textiles alliance and wants to demonstrate that the market and social responsibility are not a contradiction in terms. 
Source: Welt am Sonntag website, Hamburg, in German 0000 gmt 20 Sep 15
+
Lexis+Story+LONDON --  One of the prime reasons for the wave of migrants, refugees and asylum seekers washing into Europe is the deterioration of the conditions that Syrians face in Lebanon, Jordan and Turkey, a worsening largely caused by sharp falls in international funding from United Nations countries, officials and analysts say.
That shortfall in funding, in contrast with the greater resources provided by Europe, is prompting some to make the hazardous journey who might otherwise remain where they are. The United Nations Syria Regional Refugee and Resilience Plan, which groups a number of humanitarian agencies and covers development aid for the countries bordering Syria, had by the end of August received just 37 percent of the $4.5 billion appeal for needed funds this year. 
  António Guterres, the high commissioner for refugees, recently said that his agency's budget this year would be 10 percent smaller than in 2014, and that it could not keep up with the drastic increase in need from the long Syrian conflict, which includes shelter, water, sanitation, food, medical assistance and education. The United Nations refugee agency's funding for Syria this year is only at 43 percent of budgeted requirements. 
  The World Food Program, another United Nations agency that is a cornerstone of refugee aid, has also been making painful cuts. It is more than 63 percent underfunded for 2015, the agency said, and recently had to halve the monthly stipend to 211,000 Syrians in regional refugee camps.
  It also recently halted aid to 230,000 Syrian refugees living in Jordan outside camps. According to the World Food Program, there will be further cuts, and 100,000 people living in refugee camps could find their food support stopped entirely in November.
  The World Health Organization is only 27 percent funded.
 Refugees who cannot get assistance where they are will risk travel, aid officials say, especially when Europe seems to beckon.
  ''The conditions are now so bad or overstretched in neighboring countries that the people fleeing Syria are choosing, or have no other choice, but to go straight to Europe,'' said Melissa Fleming, chief spokeswoman for Mr. Guterres and the refugee agency. About 70 percent of registered Syrian refugees living in Lebanon, for example, are below the poverty line, creating tensions with local inhabitants for jobs and health services. About a quarter of Lebanon's population is now Syrian.
  Abeer Etefa, a spokeswoman for the World Food Program in the Middle East, said that ''the crisis is going into its fifth year and there is some sign of fatigue among donor countries.'' 
  Needs are outpacing resources, she said. ''Many Syrians have fled to neighboring countries and they are losing hope and are desperate, no longer able to meet basic needs: getting food, paying rent, keeping children in schools. Their funds are drying up.''
  It is difficult to know how many Syrian refugees are leaving safe but uncomfortable berths in camps and cities in the region to come to Europe, and how many are coming directly from Syria, said Andrej Mahecic, a United Nations refugee agency official.
  ''Conditions in neighboring countries have deteriorated considerably and the protection space is shrinking rapidly, so some Syrians are deciding to move on,'' he said. ''The immediate neighbors are buckling under the pressure,'' with host communities seeing their populations double or triple, straining health services and infrastructure and creating competition for jobs while driving down wages.
  ''Funding is not keeping up with the needs,'' he said. 
  Ali, 38, is a refugee from Aleppo, who has been in Jordan since 2011. He thought the fighting would end in months, but his savings of $2,000 are gone, and the $700 a month he got from aid agencies to cover food, rent and school fees has been cut in half.
  With a family of 10, including Hazem, 13, who is handicapped, Ali has received multiple warnings from the police for working without a permit. So he collects discarded soda cans for recycling from midnight to dawn and makes about $8 a night.
  Syrians used to get free health care, but that ended last year, he said, so he must pay for Hazem's medication. 
  In a poor part of Amman, Jordan, Mounib Zakiya, who fled Syria, told the BBC he was leaving after three years with his children and grandchildren to try to get to Europe because his meager international aid had been cut off. ''It's safe here,'' he said, ''and life is good. But we have to buy food and milk for the children. We have to pay for medical care. How can I pay the rent?''
  His family of nine was living on $9 a day, but that ended. The countries that have not provided aid ''have opened a gate to death, and are making us walk through it,'' he said. ''It's better to die fast on the journey than die slowly, watching your kids starve.''
  In both Jordan and Lebanon, the World Food Program has halved the value of the vouchers it provides refugees outside camps -- to $7 a month per person in Jordan.
  So far, in the fifth year of a Syrian civil war with no end in sight, nearly half the prewar population of 22 million people is classified as refugees or is internally displaced within Syria. As of Friday, according to the United Nations refugee agency, there are just under 4.1 million official registered Syrian refugees -- 2.1 million in Egypt, Iraq, Jordan and Lebanon, 1.9 million in Turkey and 24,000 registered in North Africa.
  But only 12 percent of the 4.1 million are in actual refugee camps, with the rest doing their best to survive with shrinking aid in regional countries that are not always welcoming.
  By comparison, just 428,735 Syrians applied for asylum in Europe between April 2011 and August 2015 -- 138,016 in 2014.
  So far this year, the refugee agency says, more than 442,440 refugees and migrants have arrived via the Mediterranean, about 51 percent of them Syrian, and 2,921 people have died trying. Every day, some 4,000 people are arriving in Greece. 
  The numbers coming to Europe are comparatively small, Ms. Fleming said, but they seem larger because of Europe's dysfunctional asylum system. ''It's this chaos which makes it look like it's unmanageable,'' she said.
  Yet European countries are budgeting much higher levels of aid to deal with the relatively small flow to Europe. While the United Nations Syrian appeal is only $4.5 billion for 2015, Germany alone said it would budget $6.6 billion by the end of the year to deal with 800,000 asylum applicants in Germany, and the European Union said last week that it would spend at least $1.1 billion to help accommodate 160,000 refugees it wanted to allocate to member countries.
  Most Syrian refugees prefer to be in the neighboring countries because they want to return home, Ms. Fleming said. But with savings dwindling and the war showing no signs of abating, ''they're losing that hope.'' 
  Ms. Etefa of the World Food Program said she saw a ''growing sense of despair'' in the refugees. Before, ''they were hopeful that the war would end, but now they are so desperate they will take all kinds of drastic measures. Only those with money take a gamble and go to Europe.
  ''Some of the poor are taking decisions to go back to Syria,'' she said, adding that ''if they're going to die, it will be better dying at home.'' But the very poor, she said, cannot even make the return. ''Governments need to reprioritize,'' Ms. Fleming said. ''If they can't prevent and stop the wars, at a minimum they need to help the victims -- Europe should not be surprised if people from the region are deciding to come here if they're not being helped where they are.''



+
Lexis+Story+As illegal migration reportedly soars, the Afghan government has appealed to citizens, especially young people, not to flee the country. 
Illegal migration has increased dramatically because of the deteriorating security and economic situation, private Channel One TV reported on 19 September. The channel aired Minister for Refugees and Returnees Sayed Hossain Alemi Balkhi appealing to young people to hold out a bit longer. "We should try not to leave this country. Particularly young people should try to remain here. I accept and agree with everyone that we are going through difficult times these days, but I believe that the problem is short-lived and will be for this year only. The Taleban wanted to test the situation," the minister said.
The channel quoted a BBC report saying the Iranian government tries to send Afghan refugees to Syria to fight for the Assad regime. 
MP Nahid Farid blamed the Ministry of Refugees and Returnees for this, accusing it of failing to take any measures.
MP Monawar Shah Bahadori said: "Since the government is inefficient, it is natural that everyone exploits the situation. Any country can somehow use Afghan refugees for its own interests."
The government neither confirmed nor rejected the reports about Iran sending Afghan refugees to Syria.
Islamoddin Jorat, spokesman for the Ministry of Refugees and Returnees, said: "It is possible Afghans are being sent to Syria to fight. But the Afghan government has not obtained any clear evidence of this. Right now we are trying to find out whether or not this is true. At the moment, I can neither confirm or reject it.
Source: Afghan Channel One (1TV), Kabul, in Dari 1300 gmt 19 Sep 15
+
Lexis+Story+A complicated mix of war, weather and logistical considerations lies behind the extraordinary influx of refugees and migrants into Europe this summer. Here are eight of the reasons that the biggest migration of people to the continent since World War II is happening now. The most important is No. 1.
 1. The war in Syria.  
Syria's war has ground on for four years without the end in sight. There is no meaningful diplomacy to end it. At least 250,000 have died. It is no wonder people want to escape. Syrians represent half of this year's unprecedented surge, which is in turn double the number the year before. In other words, without Syrians, the influx of people seeking sanctuary in Europe would be about where it was last year.
That was a record year, too, as was the year before. An upsurge in conflicts has fueled record levels of displacement in recent years. People also are fleeing conflict in Iraq, Afghanistan, Eritrea, Somalia and Niger. But with Syrians accounting for the bulk of those, this is the year when Syria's war washed up on the shores of Europe.
 2. The route to Europe got a lot easier. 
Until recently, the sea crossing from Libya to Italy had been the preferred route for all the migrants and refugees fleeing to Europe. A far shorter and less dangerous sea route exists from Turkey to Greece. But the journey from Greece through the Balkans to the northern European destinations preferred by refugees was far more complicated than the one leading through Italy. After Macedonia lifted harsh measures aimed at preventing refugees from entering the country in June, the route through the Balkans opened up. Turkey is next door to Syria, and it is also more easily accessible for people coming from countries farther to the east, including refugees from Iraq and Afghanistan and economic migrants from Pakistan and Bangladesh.
 3. The price dropped. 
This is linked to reason No. 2. The crossing to Greece from Turkey takes less than an hour and as little as 20 minutes, depending on the beach from which the boat sets out. Not only does this make the sea crossing cheaper, but also refugees no longer need to pay smugglers to sneak them through the borders of the Balkan countries. People planning to make the journey say they now need to pay smugglers no more than $2,000 to $3,000 to complete the journey instead of the $5,000 to $6,000 required to reach Libya and take the boat to Italy.
That means more people - many of whom were saving for the trip, anyway - can afford to take the journey now.
 4. The weather. 
It is normal for illegal migration into Europe to peak during the summer months, when the sea crossings are safer. One reason there is a big scramble now is that a lot of people are trying to make the journey before bad weather sets in.
Given all the other reasons people are trying reach Europe now, it is hard to predict whether the onset of winter will slow down the pace of arrivals. One thing is clear: There will be more fatalities. In the past week there have been more drownings because of capsized boats on the Greece-Turkey route than in the whole of the rest of the year - 56 this week, compared with 55 through the end of last week.
 5. Germany's extension of welcome to refugees. 
Huge numbers were already on the march when German Chancellor Angela Merkel announced that Germany would offer temporary residency to all the refugees arriving there. But there seems little doubt that the offer encouraged more people to set out. Iraqis have begun to join the exodus in bigger numbers, and many of those arriving recently in Turkey to make the trip say they were encouraged by the TV footage of Germans welcoming refugees. Whether the new border controls introduced by Germany, Hungary, Austria and Slovakia will deter people who have not yet set out remains to be seen.
 6. The Syrian government's conscription drive. 
Short of manpower to fight the rebellion against his rule, Syrian President Bashar al-Assad's government has embarked since last year on a drive to enlist reservists to serve in the army. Many of the Syrians fleeing to Europe come from government-held areas and say they were escaping forced conscription, which affects all men who completed their compulsory military service in the past 10 years - basically all men younger than 30.
 7. The Syrian government has made it easier for Syrians to travel. 
This might seem to contradict No. 6. But there appears to be no attempt to prevent young men who want to avoid military service from leaving the country. On the contrary, the government has made it easier to acquire passports in recent months - both in Syria and at embassies abroad - and it is possible to defer the military service with a payment of $300.
This has confirmed the suspicions of many Syria watchers that Assad has deliberately encouraged the refugee flow, to neighboring countries and to Europe, as part of a strategy to empty the country of potential opponents.
 8. The shortcomings of the underfunded international aid effort. 
Before this massive influx of people to Europe, 4 million Syrians had already fled their country's war to neighboring countries, mostly to Turkey, Jordan and Lebanon. There they are living miserable lives, denied the right to work, and most of the children are not in school. Many of the refugees headed for Europe who were already living as refugees cite their children's education as the main reason they are seeking to build new lives.
 Migrants and refugees wait on the railway tracks near Tatabanya, west of Budapest. (Balazs Mohai/EPA)
+
Lexis+Story+yvette cooper THE refugee crisis is getting more serious every day. Already, thousands of lives have been lost - many more will be unless we act.
European governments, including our own, have talked a lot about the crisis. But they still aren't working together and are not doing enough. 
All European countries need to substantially increase support for agencies running camps in Syria and in neighbouring countries, so people feel safe remaining where they are.
It is a disgrace that the UN High Commissioner for Refugees is not sufficiently funded and that rations in the camps have been cut.
Although Britain has provided millions of pounds of aid, other countries have failed to do so and we need to step up pressure to make them do their bit.
Urgent European funding is needed to set up safe facilities in Greece, Croatia, Hungary, Serbia and Italy to receive, assist, register and screen people as they arrive.
Thousands of people across Europe have not had their asylum status assessed and are stranded with nowhere to go, leaving them vulnerable to gangs of traffickers.
We also need internationally agreed humanitarian rules to stop some of the abuses we have seen, particularly from Hungarian police, who used tear gas and water cannon against groups of refugees.
At the European Council meeting next week, every country must offer to help and pledge how many refugees they can swiftly take.
Britain's approach of only taking refugees from the camps in Syria isn't working. Countries don't need to sign up to quotas, but they do all need to make their own offer of how many refugees they can help.
David Cameron has to show some real leadership in Europe on this.
Unless we act it is going to get worse and worse. More lives will be lost, the exploitation of vulnerable people will escalate, and disorder will rise as local populations come under pressure. We must not look back and wish we'd done more.
David Cameron should attend the EC meeting and lead Europe in getting to grips with this crisis.
Every country must now offer to help and pledge how many refugees they can take
+
Lexis+Story+Humanitarian groups are right to ask the United States to take more of the multitudes fleeing war-torn Syria, but if they put President Obama's order to accept a relatively modest 10,000 refugees into perspective, they will realize that even that number may be overly ambitious. 
 This country has accepted only about 1,600 refugees since Syria's civil war began in 2011. That's largely due to security precautions instituted to ensure that terrorists aren't accepted. It takes 18 to 24 months for the average Syrian refugee to be vetted for entry into the United States. Even if that span were cut in half, it wouldn't help address the crisis in a timely fashion.
 That reality makes it even more important for the United States to otherwise assist the hundreds of thousands of refugees who have given up on waiting out the war in the deplorable conditions of the makeshift camps set up for them in Jordan, Lebanon, and Iraq. They are instead trying to find new permanent homes in Europe.
 "It's as though all of Syria is emptying," one refugee in Turkey told the Washington Post. That's understandable. At least 200,000 Syrians have been killed in the war, many as a result of bomb, missile, and chemical attacks ordered by Syrian President Bashar al-Assad, who insists he is fighting terrorists, including Islamic State forces, and not rebels seeking to end his sadistic, despotic regime.
 That Islamic State is also an enemy of the United States complicates the situation, as does Russia's fast allegiance to Assad despite his abuse of his own people. Russian President Vladimir Putin recently sent additional military advisers, technicians, and security guards to Syria to set up an air base. Unlike the United States, some European countries have hinted that they might be willing to work with Assad against Islamic State.
 No one can predict when the fighting in Syria will end. Recent reports indicate that rebels backed by the United States, Saudi Arabia, and Turkey have made some progress. But past optimism about rebel advances evaporated as Assad clung to power. Meanwhile, Islamic State and other extremist groups are said to hold half the country.
 Given the United States' limited likely impact on the crisis even if it accelerates clearance for refugees, the country must do more to help Germany and other nations welcoming the migrants. Hungary's refusal to open its borders is deplorable. Worse, though, is the unwillingness of oil-rich Saudi Arabia, Bahrain, and Kuwait to take in dispossessed Syrians. The stakes are higher for them in a region beset by war.
 Ending the strife in Syria is the key to ending the exodus, but that won't happen soon enough. Until it does, countries that can provide sanctuary for the refugees should do so.    
+
Lexis+Story+The desperation, hope and kindness experienced by desperate migrants fleeing the war-ravaged Middle East has been laid bare in these incredible images.
In them we see a crying child in a life jacket being carried by volunteers after reaching the Island of Lesbos in Greece in a flimsy boat. 
About 30,000 people, most fleeing the war in Syria, were shipped to the Greek mainland last week, mainly arriving in Piraeus, west of Athens.
Like others, they nearly all moved north through the Balkans, hoping to reach Germany or other wealthy northern EU countries.
Read more: Croatia closes borders as 13,000 migrants surge into overwhelmed nation
The flow continued on Thursday. One of three ships being sent in a relay by the Greek government to collect people from Lesbos docked at Piraeus with 1,986 migrants on board.
"We need to have a good life, you know. We have a lot of educated people, qualified people, but we have no chance to live in Syria anymore," said one refugee arriving in Piraeus, who described himself as a professor from Aleppo, in Syria.
Greek authorities said it was possible that large groups of refugees from Syria may be about to seek entry into the country from its land border with Turkey.
This would be a relatively new entry point to Greece for the refugees, tens of thousands of whom have braved small boats and sometimes dangerous seas this summer to get from Turkey to Greek islands such as Kos and Lesbos and onwards into the European Union.
"From our side, we are preparing for a possible new wave from the Evros border," said Rodolphos Moronis, spokesman for Greece's pre-election caretaker government.
A European volunteer holds a refugee child on her arms after a boat carrying refugees arrived in Lesbos
+
Lexis+Story+Based on an article by Michal Wojciechowski, publicist, theologist.
What does it mean that every parish should take in one family? First of all, family is not a bunch of men. Secondly, it means taking care of the refugees, not putting them in a ghetto.
Thousands of illegal immigrants crossing Europe's frontiers from the south stirs emotions, and that makes recognising the problem, and solving it more difficult. One the one hand the media are showing misery and misfortune of the refugees, who come from countries torn by war. On the other hand there are reports about crimes committed by Moslems in their new countries. Because of far-fetched political correctness their crimes sometimes go unpunished. 
Those who voice their concerns about accepting immigrants are accused of egoism and lack of Christian values, especially by the atheists. Meanwhile it was the Church that reacted first, and organised help for war victims in Syria, while leftwing was enthusiastic about the Arab spring.
On the other hand those in favour of accepting immigrants are blamed for prospective future crimes, which the refugees may or may not commit, and for the future demise of Europe.
Do Moslem refugees from Syria have to go to Germany? Several million people escaped the war-torn region, but they have been placed in cams across Syria, Lebanon and Turkey. Only some of them decide to travel further in search of a better life. Along the way they assault and steel, making lives of people from Greece to Hungary difficult and dangerous.
Real refugees are mainly Christians from Syria, who were the first victims of the war. Immigrants from Libya are running away from chaos and war. Those from Africa usually paid human traffickers to smuggle them into Europe. Only some of them are Christians persecuted by Moslems.
The author claims the only refugees, who should be accepted in Europe are Christians from Moslem countries. Real refugees are usually families, and people of varying age. However majority of illegal immigrants flooding Europe are young men. Their goal is to have an easier life. Along with them come criminals and religious fanatics. It will not take many thousands to terrorise ineffective Europe.
These people need help back at home, before they decide to migrate to Europe. Moreover human traffickers should be traced and persecuted, because they endanger human lives. Trouble-makers should be deported. Apart from Christians majority of immigrants can go back to their countries. They car receive some parting gifts, and their countries can receive support. A military intervention may be in order.
News about deportation will spread fast. Right now people watch television and see wealthy Europe. They hear from friends and relatives that Europe means luxury, and the police is scared to intervene. And so thieves, not refugees decide to take a chance and steel Europe from the people, who earned a decent living over generations of hard work. Some knock on the doors and politely ask for help. Others are breaking in. Treating both groups the same is absurd.
The author is of the opinion it is not easy to distinguish between a refugee and a parasite. However a lot can be done thanks to cooperation with countries of origin. The basic criterion should be religion, something that laic Europe is trying to avoid. For many countries this would mean admitting to mistake, which is their tolerance for aggressive Islam. Temporary stay is fine, but not permanent.
Material support for every refugee is also a problem. The social security system is already burdened. The newcomers should get minimum benefits, and the benefits should not be automatic, but based on evaluation of every case. Real refugees should receive help, but illegal immigrants looking for work should be sent back.
The current crisis is a result of the policy adopted by the US and its allies. US invasion of Iraq led to unrest, and murder of suspected Western sympathisers, especially Christians. The Americans were right to oust Saddam Hussain from Kuwait, but the oil war, which ensured destabilised the Arab world. The Americans do not want Arab refugees, just like their Saudi partners.
Next in line was Libya. Gaddafi's authoritarian rule was supposed to be replaced by pro-Western democracy. The Libyan leader was eliminated, but the country was left to its own device. The West did not learn anything, and decided to overthrow Bashar Assad. Arab spring bandits were given weapons. The British are still training Assad's ?moderate' opponents in Turkey. Let them now help the victims, says the author.
News of murder of Christians, prisoners and government sympathisers was ignored for a long time. Only when the Islamic State attacked Iraq the problem was noticed. The authors says although Russian imperialism was always a threat for Poland, but Russia's support for Syria is the only good solution, and help for millions of potential victims. In this sphere Russia should have international support.
The author says German is forcing Poland to accept refugees. The government yielded to blackmail, and agreed to accept some immigrants, but is delaying the final decision before the elections. After the elections it may turn out Poland made much bigger promises, and the old administration is leaving their successors with a big problem.
The theory that Poland should reciprocate, because the EU once accepted Polish immigrants is absurd. Poles work, and help local economies grow. Europe took in well-educated Poles. In some countries of the unemployed come from the Middle East and Africa. If Poland should accept refugees, these should be Poles from the former Soviet Union, who are often discriminated against, and who live in poverty. Those evacuated from Donbas have no place to live, so why should Third World refugees be better off?
Polish authorities are unable to cope with threats related to immigration. Even a small group of Chechens are a problem, even though they know Poland is a country, which fought against Russia.
If Poland should accept someone, it should be a sovereign decision. This is what the Church wants too. The appeal that every parish should accept one family means a family, not young trouble-makers. And these people should receive help, rather than be place in a ghetto. Refugees must respect local laws. Real refugees can integrate.
The immigration problem may affect Poland less, than other European countries, because Poland is not a preferred destination. Immigrants want to go to Germany, and further. Only Christians may decide to stay longer, because they escaped Islam terror not to be placed in Swedish or German ghettos controlled by Moslem gangs.
+
Lexis+Story+Text of report in English by ERR News website, operated by Estonian Public Broadcasting, on 17 September
Prime Minister Taavi Roivas sent a letter to President of the European Commission Jean-Claude Juncker in which he proposed to direct more financial support of the European Union to the immediate neighbours of the countries at war. 
The support must be targeted at the improvement of the living and educational conditions of the refugees in countries like Lebanon, Jordan, and Turkey, in order to reduce the urgent need of the refugees to move to Europe while endangering their own lives due to difficult conditions, the Estonian PM proposed.
"We need to review the existing resources and find options for additional funding in order to improve the living and educational conditions of the refugees in the countries where they first arrive," Roivas said.
According to Roivas, this would reduce the need to undertake a desperate and dangerous journey to Europe. "Helping the refugees closer to their home enables to decrease the migration pressure on Europe," Roivas said.
"When taking the example of Lebanon -there are currently 1.5 million refugees from Syria alone. There is an urgent need for humanitarian assistance," Roivas added.
According to the UN, Lebanon needs 1.9 billion euros in order to survive the next year. Already this year, a total of 18 million people who have been affected by the crisis in Syria, need help in the amount of 7.4 billion euros.
The prime minister stressed that merely closing the internal borders of Europe does neither contribute to solving the crisis nor deal with the root causes of the refugee crisis.
Roivas discussed the migration crisis with Juncker also by telephone on Monday, further emphasizing that the EU must significantly increase the support for refugee camps located outside of Europe and for front-line countries, such as Lebanon, Jordan, and Turkey in order to help them better cope with the war refugees and improve the living conditions of the refugees.
S. Tambur
Source: ERR News website in English 1200 gmt 17 Sep 15
+
Lexis+Story+Text of report by French newspaper Liberation on 16 September
[Interview with Federica Mogherini, EU high representative for foreign affairs and security policy and vice president of the European Commission, by Jean Quatremer in Brussels; date not given: "Federica Mogherini: 'If We Send Back Refugees, What Message Will We Be Sending to the World?'"] 
[Quatremer] Can the EU deal with the refugee crisis on its own?
[Mogherini] Contrary to what some people think, this is not solely a European crisis: it is in fact a regional crisis, due mainly to the conflicts in Syria and Iraq, which affects primarily Turkey, Jordan, and Lebanon, but also Iraq and Egypt. It is also a global crisis, because there are infinitely more people on the move, whether refugees or migrants, between non-European countries than there are towards the European countries. The EU has the means to deal with this crisis. This, on the one hand by helping Syria's neighbouring countries to deal with this influx, as it has already done by providing 4 billion euros in aid during the past four years. And on the other hand by receiving a number of these refugees, since the situation in Syria's neighbouring countries is becoming untenable. This applies to Europe, but also to the international community. 
[Quatremer] A number of European citizens feel that the EU is being submerged.
[Mogherini] Of the 5 million refugees that have fed Syria, 98 per cent are in neighbouring countries. This year 430,000 Syrian refugees arrived in the EU, which has - I would remind you - 500 million inhabitants. So Europe is not being submerged: at present only 0.1 per cent of its population are refugees. Countries such as Turkey or Lebanon have done infinitely more than we are willing to do. Having said that, there is an aspect that should cause us to reflect: the prime destination that refugees leaving Syria's bordering countries want to reach is the EU, because we have succeeded during the past 70 years in building an area of peace and prosperity unmatched anywhere else in the world. Europe is a welcoming and attractive space, which we find it difficult to see internally, after several years of economic and social crisis. If some Europeans are dissatisfied with the EU now, the fact remains that it is attractive to the rest of the world and many people want to live here.
[Quatremer] For some months, some European countries have seemed more open to receiving refugees.
[Mogherini] When some political leaders started talking about refugees and no longer immigrants, it helped to change public opinion. If it is refugees, we have a duty to receive them, to protect them. Words are important, as we can see.
[Quatremer] Nevertheless other countries are still reluctant to receive refugees.
[Mogherini] If we want to help to resolve this crisis, we Europeans must shoulder our responsibilities internally, partly by agreeing to share the responsibility for receiving and obligatory processing of asylum applications, as proposed by the Commission. Only if we are credible internally can we be so externally. This alone will enable us to act effectively in the region.
[Quatremer] If Europe behaves like Hungary, it will be difficult to lecture the rest of the world.
[Mogherini] It will be very difficult to explain to the Middle East that we must respect minorities' rights if we use discriminatory language and practices within the EU. We are perceived as the champions of human rights, and this demands consistent political messages and decisions. The majority of refugees are fleeing Islamic State [ISIL], an organization that we are combating. If we do not welcome these victims of terrorism, if we are unable to protect them, what message will we be thus sending the rest of the world? It is not a matter of good intentions, it is also a matter of investing in our security by showing ourselves to be welcoming. If these refugees are trapped between ISIL, the Al-Asad regime that they are fleeing, and the countries that that refuse to receive them, do we think that this is the best way to prevent the development of terrorist movements in the region and in Europe?
[Quatremer] The radical right and the far left in Europe say that there are jihadist combatants concealed among these refugees.
[Mogherini] It would hardly make sense for a would-be terrorist to portray himself as a refugee, since his fingerprints are automatically recorded on the Eurocad database. They have much safer networks. Furthermore, all the attacks that have taken place in Europe were perpetrated by European citizens or long-term residents. When I talk with my Iraqi, Jordanian, and Turkish counterparts, they tell me that Europe would do well to monitor its own nationals going out to fight in ISIL ranks, who could return to Europe without requesting asylum.
[Quatremer] Are these refugees destined to settle in Europe?
[Mogherini] As far as I can see, refugees generally want to return home as soon as possible. This applies particularly to the Syrian refugees, who are highly educated and whose living standards were similar to our own. Once we are able to end the war, they will want to return in order to rebuild their own country and to live there. Of course this will take a long time.
[Quatremer] Countries that bear responsibility for the destabilization of the region - and the United States first and foremost - are doing little to receive these refugees.
[Mogherini] We are beginning to see a general awareness: Barack Obama has just announced that he will receive 10,000 refugees and Canada and Australia have made similar announcements.
[Quatremer] Francois Hollande [French president] has proposed holding a conference on the refugee question in order to internationalize the problem.
[Mogherini] There does indeed need to be a worldwide mobilization. Norway has also proposed holding a conference on support for Syria's refugees, but within the UN framework. It is useful to use this framework, because most of the action is already based on the wonderful work being done by the High Commission for Refugees, a UN agency funded mainly by the EU. Above all, this would permit real international mobilization, because a solution depends on a global approach. Everyone must be able to mobilize resources in terms of receiving refugees and supporting the countries of the region confronted with an unprecedented challenge. Imagine if the EU had to receive the same percentage of refugees as Turkey or Jordan for several years.
[Quatremer] Could the refugee crisis not destabilize the neighbouring countries?
[Mogherini] If we think that we can turn a blind eye to the crisis, that it can be managed by a third countries, and that we can confine ourselves to helping them financially, we risk destabilizing or radicalizing Turkey, Lebanon, and Jordan, countries where refugees account for all as much as one-third of the population. And there is not only the Syrian crisis: for instance, Tunisia hosts 1.5 million Libyans. It is these regions' security that is at stake and, indirectly, our own security. The effects of an explosion of Lebanon or a destabilization of Jordan would be terrible - terrorism, a tide of refugees, and economic integration. We must look ahead and invest in these countries' stability.
[Quatremer] Does this humanitarian crisis not oblige Europe and the West to concern themselves with Syria at last?
[Mogherini] Indeed. And it is occurring as a key moment, following the nuclear agreement with Iran, which opens a diplomatic window - for a possible dialogue among the different players. I support the UN special envoy's initiatives, calling for the establishment of an international contact group on Syria. Iran can play a constructive role in the Syrian crisis and we can try to convene these regional actors, such as Iran, the Gulf monarchies, ad Turkey, with the United States and Russia, within an international framework. Course, the EU will play a key role.
[Quatremer] Do you think that there is a military solution to the Syrian crisis?
[Mogherini] No. Of course, military support for the action against ISIL - as the global coalition has done in Iraq - in order to contain it, is necessary, but it is not sufficient. This, particularly since in Syria there is not only ISIL, but also a civil war, which cannot be remedied by military action. The solution will be a political and diplomatic one. We need to identify common ground so that the various parties, apart from ISIL, and talk to one another and agree on a new kind of governance in Syria. This alone will end this complex civil war and make it possible to combat the jihadist organization effectively.
[Quatremer] So without Bashar al-Asad?
[Mogherini] In view of the way he has been involved in the civil war, it is impossible to imagine that he could be part of the country's future governance. That does not mean that representatives of the regime will not be at the negotiating table. The idea of an international contact group could be helpful: it could encourage Syria's players to find grounds for a compromise. After four and a half years of civil war, we must acknowledge the reality: almost 12 million people have been displaced (7.6 million of them within the country,) the country has been destroyed, and ISIL now poses a threat to the whole world. This is a very difficult crisis to manage, because a major part is being played by regional players. Europe and the international community must make all the regional players understand that it is in their own interest to stabilize Syria and to combat ISIL. 
Source: Liberation, Paris, in French 16 Sep 15 pp 12-13
+
Lexis+Story+As the world experiences the most severe refugee crisis since World War II, world leaders are discussing how to address the influx of migrants coming from war-torn countries such as Syria, Iraq, Somalia, and Afghanistan.  
Last week, President Obama requested that the US take in 10,000 Syrian refugees in 2016. That's up from the just over 1,500 the US has accepted since the start of the Syrian civil war, now in its fifth year.
Speaking to a group of reporters at a Monitor-hosted lunch on Wednesday, Samantha Power, the US permanent representative to the United Nations, suggested that the number could go higher.
"President Obama has made very clear that the number we have been able to resettle up to this point is insufficient and that we are going to need to expand that significantly in the next fiscal year," Ambassador Power said. "In terms of what the right overall number will be next year, we are continuing to reassess that. It is, of course, an issue of acute urgency."
Currently, the United States has received 17,000 referrals from the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) for candidates who are eligible for resettlement, Power noted.
On Tuesday, Senator Dick Durbin (D) of Illinois called on the country's top officials to accept 100,000 Syrian refugees. Meanwhile, some Republican lawmakers have expressed concerns that increasing the number of refugees could pose a threat to national security.
Power said the administration welcomed Senator Durbin's proposal and "would consider it carefully. But she stressed that there is a wide variety of opinions in the US government and in the UN Security Council regarding what should be done to address the global refugee crisis and the conflict in Syria.
In order to solve these issues, it's necessary for countries to work together to find a political solution to the conflict in Syria, a solution whose outcome could significantly help stem the tide of refugees fleeing that country, Power said Wednesday.
"It [the migrant crisis] really raises questions about burden sharing and about the Syria conflict in particular, and about the need, of course, for the long elusive political solution to that conflict," Power said.
Meanwhile, important differences remain between the United States and its fellow Security Council member Russia regarding the root causes of the conflict in Syria and how to address them.
"We need to get past this fundamental disagreement about what the cause of terrorism is and how to combat it. And those divisions do not appear to have abated, not withstanding the fact that we have more meetings and more heartbreak," Power said.
During the 70th UN General Assembly, which opened this week in New York, Russian President Vladimir Putin is expected to meet with Mr. Obama to discuss the conflict in Syria and the global refugee crisis, among other issues.
Meanwhile, Power said she believes most Americans would support the government's decision to allow more refugees to resettle in the United States. 
"Too often, particularly in a political season, the loudest voices are ones that are very unwelcoming toward people coming from other countries," Power pointed out. "And yet I think most Americans have had the experience of feeling the great pride that we feel in terms of those we have managed to shelter in times of great need."            
+
Lexis+Story+Estonian PM: EU support should be channeled to Syria's neighborhood
TALLINN, Sep 16, BNS - Estonian Prime Minister Taavi Roivas has sent a letter to the president of the European Commission, proposing to channel more EU funds to neighbors of crisis hot spots. 
Support should be channeled into improving standards of living and education for refugees in countries like Lebanon, Jordan and Turkey so the difficult conditions would not compel them to move on to Europe, putting their lives at risk, Roivas said in his letter to Jean-Claude Juncker.
"We need to look over existing resources and find additional funds to improve refugees' living and education conditions in countries where they arrive first," the prime minister said. In his words, this would reduce the need to undertake a desperate and dangerous journey to Europe. "By helping war refugees closer to their homes, we will reduce migration pressure on Europe," he said.
Lebanon for example has 1.5 million refugees from Syria alone and is in desperate need of humanitarian relief, Roivas said.
The UN says Lebanon needs 1.9 billion euros to survive the next year. Already this year 7.4 billion euros is required to provide for the 18 million people affected by the Syrian crisis.
Roivas underlined that sealing off Europe's internal borders alone will not help solve the crisis nor tackle the root source of the refugee crisis.
Roivas spoke with Juncker about the migration crisis also by phone on Monday, emphasizing once again that the European Union must significantly increase support for refugee camps outside Europe and for frontline countries such as Lebanon, Jordan and Turkey to help them better cope with the flood of refugees and improve refugees' living conditions.
Tallinn newsroom, +372 610 8832, sise@bns.ee
Baltic News Service
+
Lexis+Story+. Russian President Vladimir Putin has rebuffed the attempts of shifting the blame on Russia for the flow of refugees from Syria to Europe
"We see attempts today of nearly casting the blame on Russia for this problem, for its emergence," Putin said at the summit of the Collective Security Treaty Organization (CSTO), a post-Soviet security bloc, in Tajikistan's capital Dushanbe. "They allege that the refugees problem emerged due to Russia's support for the legitimate authorities in Syria," he said. 
The Russian leader stressed that "no one will manage to pass the buck."
Putin said that the fact is that people are fleeing Syria first of all due to combat actions there "imposed to a significant extent from outside," and also the atrocity of terrorists. "If Russia had not supported Syria, the situation in the country would have been worse than in Libya and the refugees flow would have been even greater," he said.
Putin also stressed that "the support for the legitimate government of Syria is no way linked to the refugees flows from such countries as Libya, Yemen, Afghanistan, Iraq and others."
"We did not destabilize the situation in those countries and the whole regions of the world. We do not destroy or did not destroy there state institutions, creating power vacuums, which are immediately filled with terrorists," he said.
According to the European Commission, since early 2015, more than 400,000 migrants have officially applied for asylum in 28 EU member-states, compared with 280,000 last year. Around 200,000 people have arrived onboard vessels via the Mediterranean Sea.
The migrants issue came to the forefront after the bodies of 71 refugees from Syria were found in a truck in Austria in late August. A total of 2,600 people have died this year as they attempted to flee to Europe.
Experts say the flow of illegal migrants to the EU countries may reach 1 million people by the year-end.
--0--**
+
Lexis+Story+EUROPE must "step up to the plate" and send more aid to Syria's neighbouring countries to reduce the flow of refugees to Europe, David Cameron warned yesterday.
The Prime Minister said there was a "moral imperative" on other EU nations to help the millions of Syrian refugees seeking safety in camps across the Middle East.
Mr Cameron said: "It's a fact that the World Food Programme and UNHCR are underfunded. If other counties did as much as Britain has done we could solve that problem. 
"We have given in the region of £1 billion, that is 10 times more than some of the other countries in our region. I would encourage others to step up to the plate and spend and invest in the way that Britain has done."
He said there was a "very real connection to the migration crisis in Europe".
In Jordan, Mr Cameron toured Zaatari, a sprawling desert camp in the north of the kingdom that is home to nearly 80,000 Syrian refugees.
Mr Cameron has been under pressure internationally and domestically to address the refugee crisis. The UK has accepted 216 Syrian refugees over the past year and granted asylum to fewer than 5,000 since war broke out in 2011 - less than countries such as France, Germany and Sweden.
Mr Cameron's office said he had named Richard Harrington to a new junior ministerial post in charge of overseeing Syrian refugee resettlement. In a warning shot to Germany, the Prime Minister said more migrants would seek refuge in Britain and other well-off EU states unless more cash is invested in the region.
Mr Cameron said he was moved by the living conditions inside the camps after it emerged almost 60 per cent of those living in the camp in Jordan are youngsters. He spent time in a classroom with children in the camp and looked at medical facilities provided by UK aid in a settlement in Lebanon.
His wife Samantha, a Save the Children goodwill ambassador, is involved in the charity's work and visited a refugee settlement in Lebanon in 2013. He said: "There are 11 million people who have been made homeless by the Syria crisis. So far only 3 per cent have decided to make the journey to Europe. If we don't invest in these refugee camps, many, many more people will come and that will put a huge pressure on Europe" It follows a warning from a senior Unicef spokesman that aid programmes in Syria are only 35 per cent funded and children are going hungry as a result. Soha Boustani said Syrians fleeing their home country had hoped to return home but "the windows of opportunity have closed" and a "generation of children" could be lost.
She added that "conditions are deteriorating" inside Lebanon and called on Mr Cameron to "continue funding refugees inside Syria and in the region otherwise they have no choice but to try [to get to Europe]".
Mr Cameron said the UK would welcome the most vulnerable Syrian refugees, including women who have been raped and men who have been tortured. The Prime Minister also said he will push for a vote on air strikes in Syria without the backing of Jeremy Corbyn, the new Labour leader.
A Lebanese minister told journalists travelling with Mr Cameron yesterday that he believed Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant could be sending jihadists out of Syria posing as refugees. Elias Bou Saab, the education minister, suggested that as many as 2 per cent - one in 50 - of the refugees could be "radicals", which he said would be "more than enough" to cause problems.
Philip Johnston: Page 18
80,000 The number of refugees from Syria who have been forced to seek shelter at the Zaatari desert camp
+
Lexis+Story+EUROPE must "step up to the plate" and send more aid to Syria's neighbouring countries to reduce the flow of refugees to Europe, David Cameron warned yesterday.
The Prime Minister said there is a "moral imperative" on other EU nations to help the millions of Syrian refugees seeking safety in camps across the Middle East.
Mr Cameron said: "It's a fact that the World Food Programme and UNHCR are underfunded. If other counties did as much as Britain has done we could solve that problem. 
"We have given in the region of £1 billion, that is ten times more than some of the other countries in our region. I would encourage others to step up to the plate and spend and invest in the way that Britain has done. There is a moral imperative to do that and also it's a moral imperative to that because there is a very real connection to the migration crisis in Europe."
In Jordan, Mr Cameron toured Zaatari, a sprawling desert camp in the north of the kingdom that is home to nearly 80,000 Syrian refugees.
Mr Cameron has been under pressure internationally and domestically to address the refugee crisis.
The UK has accepted 216 Syrian refugees over the past year and granted asylum to less than 5,000 since war broke out in 2011 - far fewer than other European countries such as France, Germany and Sweden.
Mr Cameron's office yesterday announced he had named Richard Harrington to a new junior ministerial post in charge of overseeing Syrian refugee resettlement. But in a warning shot to Germany, the Prime Minister said more migrants will seek refuge in Britain and other well-off EU states unless more cash is invested in the region.
Mr Cameron said he was moved by the living conditions inside the camps after it emerged almost 60 per cent of those living in the camp in Jordan are youngsters. He spent time in a classroom with children in the camp and looked at medical facilities provided by UK aid in a settlement in Lebanon.
His wife Samantha, a Save the Children goodwill ambassador, is heavily involved in the charity's work and visited a refugee settlement in Lebanon in 2013. He said: "There are 11 million people who have been made homeless by the Syria crisis. So far only 3 per cent have decided to make the journey to Europe. If we don't invest in these refugee camps, many, many, many more people will come and that will put a huge pressure on Europe and also people will be making that potentially lethal journey across the Mediterranean and lives will be lost.
"There is a big connection with what we spend here, keeping them safe here. Britain is playing her part, others now need to do more too."
It follows a warning from a senior UNICEF spokesman that aid programmes in Syria are only 35 per cent funded and children are going hungry as a result. Soha Boustani said Syrians fleeing their home country had hoped to return home but "the windows of opportunity have closed" and a "generation of children" could be lost.
She added that "conditions are deteriorating" inside Lebanon and called on Mr Cameron to "continue funding refugees inside Syria and in the region otherwise they have no choice but to try [to get to Europe]".
Mr Cameron said the UK will welcome the most vulnerable Syrian refugees into the country, including women who have been raped and men who have been tortured. The Prime Minister also said he will push for a vote on air strikes in Syria without the backing of Jeremy Corbyn, the new Labour leader.
Philip Johnston: Page 18
80,000 The number of refugees from Syria who have been forced to seek shelter at the Zaatari desert camp
+
Lexis+Story+Main themes on Russian primetime TV news on Channel One, Rossiya 1 and NTV on 15 September
All three Russian television channels - official state Rossiya 1, Gazprom Media-owned NTV and state-controlled Channel One, - started their primetime evening programmes on 15 September with reports about Putin's speech at a Collective Security Treaty Organization summit in Dushanbe. The refugee crisis in Europe was second on the Russian channels' agenda. 
Putin calls for joint effort in Syria 
All three channels showed Putin speaking at a summit of the Collective Security Treaty Organization in Dushanbe and picked on the same points in his speech. 
Putin urged the Western countries to set aside geopolitical ambitions and join efforts in the fight against terrorism. He also confirmed that Russia would continue to support Syrian President Al-Asad and provide military and technical assistance to him. "If Russia had not supported Syria, the situation in that country would have been even worse that in Libya and there would have been even more refugees," Putin said. 
"We did not destabilize the situation in those countries, in whole regions of the world. It is not us who are destroying and who destroyed state institutions of power there, creating a vacuum of power that is instantly filled by terrorists," Putin said, in a thinly veiled reproach to the Western countries. 
One of the Rossiya 1 presenters provided an editorial comment on the issue, largely repeating the points made by Putin.
The USA is threatening Russia with international isolation because of its different approach to the fight against terrorism, although, one would think, the fight against terrorism is supposed to unite countries and nations, the presenter said. White House Press Secretary Josh Earnest was quoted as saying that Russia's actions are against the interests of the USA-led coalition. 
The presenter said the USA wanted to punish Russia for not fighting IS the "correct way" wanted by Washington. "As we know, correct measures are those which will lead to the overthrow of the Syrian government, i.e. those that the USA has already employed in Iraq and Libya and that led to the appearance of Islamic State," the presenter said. Russia believes it is inadmissible to tell the Syrians what to do. Putin's press secretary Peskov was quoted as saying that nobody had explained who would come after Al-Asad. "However, Russia does not rule out a meeting between Vladimir Putin and Barack Obama on the Syrian problem," presenter said, adding that the format of such a meeting is not known yet.
Syrian President Al-Asad interviewed by Russian journalists
All three channels showed the same clips from an interview given by Syrian President Bashar Al-Asad to Russian journalists in Damascus. 
Al-Asad says that his government tries to ensure security for the country's population. He then says that in order to stop influx of refugees from Syria to Europe European countries should stop supporting "terrorists".
Asad said the immediate priority in Syria is to defeat terrorism. "We can reach consensus but we cannot implement anything until we defeat terrorism in Syria," he said.
Commenting on the European Union's refugee crisis, Al-Asad said it was necessary to eliminate the root causes of this problem. 
Al-Asad called on the international community to organize a united front against terrorism that was spreading in Syria.
European Union "falling apart at the seams"
After Syria, Europe's refugee crisis continues to be the second biggest theme on Russian television. 
Rossiya 1 presented its report about refugees as "about the crisis of overpopulation in Europe". Hungary has introduced an emergency on its border with Serbia, as the two countries cannot agree on how to deal with the refugees on their border. Germany has introduced road patrols, searching for illegal migrants. Austria has introduced border control. Yesterday Germany stopped railway traffic with Austria, which had earlier done the same with Hungary, NTV reported, adding that all this looks like "the old children's play 'pass the parcel'". "The refugees will be sent where they came from. To prevent this, Belgrade is strengthening the border. The Serbs do not want to pay for the Americans' military recklessness," NTV said. (Unusually, the other channels did not mention the Americans in the context of the refugee crisis in Europe.) 
Germany insists that all European countries accept their quotas of refugees but the new members of the EU show little enthusiasm.  "The political elites of the Old World admit that the European Union is falling apart at the seams," Rossiya 1 correspondent said. 
Ukraine 
Neither NTV, nor, more surprisingly, Rossiya 1 had anything to say about Ukraine. The only report about Ukraine was shown by Channel One, which spoke about the difficult economic situation in the country, citing the examples of Ukrainian athletes who, because of financial problems, are force to go abroad to compete for other countries. 
Incident at the Frankfurt Motor Show
One subject on which the three channels' coverage differed significantly was the Frankfurt Motor Show in Germany.
NTV's correspondent spoke excitedly about new car models at the show and briefly mentioned that the chief executive of BMW had collapsed on stage. 
Rossiya 1 was obviously not interested in the Western car industry's successes, and only reported the fainting incident. 
The Channel One correspondent started the report by mentioning the fainting but moved on to showing and talking enthusiastically about shiny new cars.  
Source: as listed in Russian 2000 gmt 15 Sep 15
+
Lexis+Story+DAVID CAMERON has called on other EU countries to "step up to the plate" and follow Britain's lead by funding refugee camps around Syria.
Mr Cameron said there was a "direct connection" between shortfalls in aid for camps in Lebanon, Jordan and Turkey and the influx of migrants into Europe. 
Speaking during a visit to the huge Za'atri camp yesterday, which houses 90,000 Syrians in Jordan, he warned that a failure to boost spending would mean "many, many, many" more people taking the decision to risk a perilous Mediterranean crossing.
"It is a fact that the World Food Programme and UNHCR are underfunded, and if other countries did as much as Britain has done, we could solve that problem," said the Prime Minister. "We have given something in the region of £1bn - that's more than 10 times some of the countries in our region. I would encourage others to step up to the plate and spend and invest in the way Britain has done. There is a moral imperative for that, but there is also a real connection to the refugee crisis in Europe.
"The UNHCR were saying to me that when there is a squeeze on the money available in the region, that is when people start to move.
"There are 11 million homeless people in Syria, of whom 3% have so far decided to come to Europe. There is an enormous number who could decide to come to Europe.
That underlines the importance of other countries supporting the refugee camps."
Mr Cameron has come under intense pressure to join an EU scheme to relocate 160,000 migrants - many of them Syrian - who have entered Europe in recent months.
+
Lexis+Story+"Vremya" presented by Vitaliy Yeliseyev
0045 Headlines over video: Russia calls for aid to Syria in fighting Islamic State group; Syrian leader's interview to Russian journalists; Europe building walls against refugees; famous actor dies; Ukrainian athletes now have to compete for other countries' national teams; import replacement in Russia; BMW head faints at motor show.  
1. 0153 Russia has confirmed its support for Syria and called on other countries to do the same, presenter says. Video report from the capital of Tajikistan looks at the summit of the Russia-led Collective Security Treaty Organization, CSTO, held there. Russian President Vladimir Putin is shown saying that people are fleeing Syria because of "terrorists' atrocities" and that, if Russia had not supported Syria, the situation there would have been worse than in Libya and the flow of migrants to Europe would have been much greater. He then says that Syrian President Bashar Al-Asad is prepared to involve "sensible" opposition forces in governing of the state. He also says that Russia supports the Syrian authorities and will continue to do so. He then talks about plans of the Islamic State group (ISIS) to seize other countries and regions. He says that Russia is concerned about possible return of ISIS fighters to Russia. The report then briefly looks at destruction in Tajikistan of drugs which come from Afghanistan. Putin then says that the international military effort in Afghanistan has not improved the situation in that country. After that, the report looks at the Russian military presence in Tajikistan. The report also shows Kazakh leader Nursultan Nazarbayev and Belarusian leader Alyaksandr Lukashenka talking about threats to CSTO member states. Putin is also briefly shown meeting the Kyrgyz president. 
2. 0945 The latest reports says that about 40 people were killed in Syria over the past two days, presenter says.
3. 1006 Video report from Syria shows excerpts from an interview given by President Bashar Al-Asad to Russian journalists. Al-Asad says that his government tries to ensure security for the country's population. He then says that in order to stop the influx of refugees from Syria into Europe, European countries should stop supporting "terrorists".
4. 1316 The Austrian government has authorized introduction of border controls, presenter says. Video report from Hungary shows a large number of refugees stuck on the Serbian side of the border. A refugee says that they want to go to Germany and that the Hungarians should help them. Correspondent says that Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orban has declared state of emergency in two regions of the country. 
5. 1736 The Lithuanian prime minister has accused Germany of "blackmail" following a proposal to cut funding to the EU member states that refuse to admit refugees. Correspondent quotes from the prime minister's statement. 
6. 1836 The French satirical magazine, Charlie Hebdo, has landed in hot water following publication of a caricature depicting the Syrian boy whose body was recently found on a Turkish beach. 
7. 1926 Famous Soviet actor Mikhay Volontir has died. Video report looks back at the actor's career. 
8. 2352 A Rostov region court today extended the term of Ukrainian pilot Nadiya Savchenko's arrest for another six months, presenter says. 
9. 2427 The Ukrainian authorities have postpone a new wave of mobilization, presenter says, adding that at the same time it is planned to increase the number of contract servicemen in the army. He also says that this is being planned despite the difficult economic situation in the country. He goes on to say that financial problems force Ukrainian athletes to go abroad to compete for other countries' national teams. Video report looks at such athletes. The main message of the report is that there is hardly any money or hope for sport in Ukraine and that athletes are forced to emigrate to be able to continue their careers. About 30 athletes have already left Ukraine, correspondent says. 
10. 2946 A Russian space rocket has put a telecoms satellite into orbit, presenter says over video. 
11. 3026 The latest video just in: Putin, Lukashenka and Nazarbayev are meeting in Sochi. 
12. 3049 An exhibition devoted to import replacement has opened in Moscow Region. Video report shows Prime Minister Dmitriy Medvedev visiting the exhibition. Deputy Prime Minister Arkadiy Dvorkovich and Ingush leader Yunus-Bek Yevkurov are also shown visiting the exhibition and making statements. 
13. 3436 The State Duma today convened for the first session after the summer recess. Video report shows a One Russia MP talking about the regional elections held on 13 September. Communist Party leader Gennadiy Zyuganov is shown saying that "a lot depends on this session" because Russia faces many threats. A Just Russia MP Oleg Nilov says that people like his party's ideas. Liberal Democratic Party of Russia leader Vladimir Zhirinovskiy is shown saying that his party will campaign to ensure that elections are held in Russia in March and not in September.
14. 3736 Russian military hardware is being tested during the Tsentr-2015 military exercise. Video report shows an exercise involving motorized riflemen in Astrakhan Region. Deputy Commander of the Ground Troops Aleksandr Lentsov is shown talking about the exercise. The report then shows helicopters and other aircraft flying over a training range in Orenburg Region, as well as an exercise involving ships from the Caspian Flotilla on the Caspian Sea. 
15. 4031 Wildfires continue in California, presenter says over video. 
16. 4104 BMW's chief Harald Krueger has fainted at a motor show in Germany, presenter says. Video report looks at the incident and several cars presented at the show. 
4622 Presenter introduces a film to be shown after this programme and signs off.
Source: Channel One TV, Moscow, in Russian 1800 gmt 15 Sep 15
+
Lexis+Story+ David Cameron has called on other EU countries to "step up to the plate" and follow Britain's lead by funding refugee camps around Syria. 
Mr Cameron said there was a "direct connection" between shortfalls in aid for camps in Lebanon, Jordan and Turkey and the influx of migrants into Europe.
Speaking during a visit to the immense Za'atri camp, which houses 90,000 Syrians in Jordan, he warned that a failure to boost spending would mean "many, many, many" more people taking the decision to risk a perilous Mediterranean crossing. 
"It is a fact that the World Food Programme and UNHCR are underfunded, and if other countries did as much as Britain has done, we could solve that problem," said the Prime Minister.
"We have given something in the region of £1 billion - that's more than 10 times some of the countries in our region.
"I would encourage others to step up to the plate and spend and invest in the way Britain has done.
"There is a moral imperative for that, but there is also a real connection to the refugee crisis in Europe.
"The UNHCR were saying to me that when there is a squeeze on the money available in the region, that is when people start to move.
"There are 11 million homeless people in Syria, of whom 3% have so far decided to come to Europe. There is an enormous number who could decide to come to Europe. That underlines the importance of other countries supporting the refugee camps and supporting people who remain in Syria."
Mr Cameron has come under intense pressure to join an EU scheme to relocate 160,000 migrants - many of them Syrian - who have entered Europe in recent months.
But he argued the scheme would encourage more to risk the Mediterranean crossing, which has claimed many lives. And he said people he spoke to at Za'atri and at the smaller Dalhamiyet Zahle camp in Lebanon, wanted to go home to a peaceful Syria, not to Europe.
Mr Cameron met some of the families who will come to the UK under a scheme announced earlier this month for 20,000 of the most vulnerable refugees to be resettled from the camps.
These would include sick children, women who had been raped and men who had suffered torture at the hands of dictator Bashar Assad or the Islamic State terror group, he said.
He called on Britain to give them a "warm welcome", saying the offer of sanctuary was "something the whole country can be proud of".
At Dalhamiyet, Mr Cameron was invited into the tent of a mother-of-10, who told him how she struggled to feed her family on reduced 13.50 dollar-a-month handouts after the World Food Programme was forced to cut back support.
He announced he was appointing Watford MP Richard Harrington as minister for Syrian refugees to oversee the operation to welcome the new arrivals to the UK over the next five years.
The PM held talks with his Lebanese counterpart Tammam Salam, who thanked him for Britain's "sustained decisive backing" for his country, which has taken 1.1 million Syrians - more than a quarter of Lebanon's population.
Some £29 million of the UK's latest £100 million donation for Syrian refugees is going to Lebanon, with £60 million going to agencies and charities helping people in Syria itself, £6 million to Jordan and £5 million to Turkey.
Mr Cameron announced Britain was doubling support for Lebanon's state schools to £20 million a year for the next three years, to help them cope with the influx of Syrian children.
Mr Cameron held talks with King Abdullah in the Jordanian monarch's palace in capital Amman.
King Abdullah said he wanted to "commend the role" Britain was playing in the refugee crisis in his country.
He added: "It is commendable that Europe is opening its borders and its hearts after the haunting images we have seen of migrants trying to get to Europe."
Mr Cameron thanked Jordan's people for "the extraordinary generosity they have shown hosting so many Syrian refugees."
He said Britain was "proud" of its support for people in the camps, adding: "We will continue with that investment and we hope other countries will do more."
In Za'atri camp, the PM visited a Handicap International centre, where he spoke to patients with serious injuries from the Syrian war.
He spoke to 15-year-old Malik, who lost a leg to a barrel bomb dropped from a plane as he played football with friends last November. The boy - wearing a Barcelona shirt and a prosthetic leg - told the PM he had been living in the camp with his father for nine months but wanted to return home to Syria.
Mr Cameron explained his decision to take in people from the camps selected by the UN on the basis of need, rather than those who have already reached Europe: "Britain will resettle 20,000 refugees, but we will take them from these camps, we will take the most vulnerable, we will take disabled children, we will take women who have been raped, we will take men who have suffered torture.
"I've met some of the families myself. That's the right thing to do and Britain will do the right thing."
Mr Cameron made clear he blamed Moscow for the impasse in peace talks following earlier talks in Geneva.
Asked about the possibility the process could be revived, the PM said: "The question is really for the Russians in so many ways, because they have been propping up what is a murderous regime that set about this onslaught on its own people.
"What we need is a transition in Syria from (Bashar) Assad, who can't be part of Syria's future and is unacceptable to his people.
"We need a transition and that does need a political process. Britain is ready to help work on that but we do need the Russians to help us too."
+
Lexis+Story+David Cameron will push for a vote on air strikes in Syria without Jeremy Corbyn's backing, he revealed on a landmark trip to Lebanon and Jordan. 
In a clear strengthening of the Number 10 line against Mr Corbyn the prime minister said the views of one person will not be enough to block a vote as long as other MPs back his decision to strike Islamic state targets. 
Asked if parliament is now further from a vote on military action in Syria following Mr Corbyn's election the prime minister replied: "That will depend on parliament. It doesn't necessarily depend on the views of one person." 
Mr Corbyn has publicly claimed he can think of "no circumstances" under which he would back UK military intervention and is a founding member of the Stop the War Coalition. 
But as many as 40 labour MPs are said to be broadly supportive of military action, allowing them to bypass their new anti-war leader. 
Speaking during his visit Mr Cameron was clear that the UK will not engage in talks with the Assad regime in Syria. 
Asked if he would back transitional talks the prime minister said: "Their view [Lebanon] is that it's necessary to take military action against Daesh/ISIL. They agree with that view. 
"But their view, like me, that the transition required in Syria is a new Government and a transition away from Assad. I agree with that. 
"We should continue to talk to neighbouring countries, talk to other powers including the Russians and others, about the pressing need for a Government in Syria that can represent all of the people."
But he stopped short of backing talks and said the Syrian leader should play no role in the future of the country as he "butchered" his own people. 
The prime minister made his first trip to Lebanon to visit the Bekka Valley camp which houses scores of families who have escaped violent clashes across the border in Syria. 
He also travelled to the UNHCR Zaatari refugee camp in Jordan by helicopter, to visit an education and counselling centre for children paid for by British aid. 
During the visit he said hundreds of thousands of Syrian refugees have been prevented from travelling to Europe by British aid money,which has now reached £1billion. 
The prime minister also announced the appointment of Conservative MP Richard Harrington as minister for Syrian refugees during a visit to a camp just a mile from the war-torn nation's border. 
Mr Harrington will oversee the process of allowing 20,000 refugees into the UK over the next couple of years as part of a vast resettlement plan. 
In a landmark visit to the overstretched region Mr Cameron said "it is clearly in British interests" to donate millions to supporting countries like Lebanon and Jordan as they struggle to cope with an influx of people fleeing the war in Syria. 
He reiterated his belief that putting British cash into projects in Syria and the surrounding region is the best way of preventing thousands of migrants from heading to Europe - as he met a mother of ten who had fled Syria for the safety of Lebanon. 
Mr Cameron also held talks on the refugee crisis and the threat from Islamic State with Lebanese PM Tammam Salam at his Beirut office yesterday, and had a meeting with King Abdullah of Jordan. 
Mr Salam thanked Britain for it's "sustained decisive backing for Lebanon" and Mr Cameron praised the "immense generosity and resilience" of the country's people in taking in so many Syrians. 
The prime minister also vowed to sustain funding of the Lebanese school system, which is stretched to breaking point. 
94 percent of Syrians who have fled the country are still living in the region, putting pressure on surrounding nations like Lebanon, which have limited resources and overstretched public services. 
The prime minister said he wanted to see for himself the scale of the crisis as it emerged in over a third of schools in the country half of the children are Syrian. 
Speaking during the visit, where he met families and aid workers, he said: "I wanted to come here to see for mself and to hear for myself stories of refugees and what they need. 
"Britain is already the second largest donor to refugee camps, to this whole crisis really helping in a way that many other countries aren[t with serious amounts of money. 
"We will go on doing that including increasing the amount of money we are giving to educate Syrian children here in Lebanon and elsewhere. I think that's absolutely vital."
Around £29million of the funding announced by Mr Cameron in Madrid earlier this month will be spent in Lebanon - with some of the cash going to Palestinian and Lebanese citizens to reduce tensions between the groups. 
It will provide food, counselling, schemes to prevent sexual violence against women and basic needs like fuel, cooking utensils and bedding. 
The rest of the extra £100million, which takes the UK contribution to £1billion, will be spent inside Syria, in Turkey and in Jordan - where large numbers of refugees gave fled. 
+
Lexis+Story+Sir, I have a house on Leros, Greece. I have spent the past two months as a volunteer trying to help refugees from Turkey. Many have not eaten for days, stuck on an unpopulated island without water, clothes or shoes. 
I appealed to my friends for help, and donations came in. Friends of friends sent money, then through Facebook I received offers from as far as America and New Zealand. I collected (EURO)17,800. With a handful of volunteers (some of them tourists), we have fed 400 refugees once a day, every day: at one stage, 1,500 in one day. This money has provided food for about 16,000 refugees, and shoes so they can walk hundreds of miles further. We have also given out clothes donated by local Greeks. Others here are doing the same.
All this while all but a couple of Europe's governments (notably Germany and Sweden) did nothing.
It is time to take refugees on a ratio based on country size and population. The other reaction is to go to Turkey and pick up refugees who have families in EU countries.
There. Problem sorted. Now please get on with it.
dr Julie peakman Birkbeck College, London Sir, Monday's EU meeting must respond to the refugee crisis, and address its causes. Millions inside Syria are struggling, with Lebanon, Jordan, Iraq and Egypt overwhelmed by refugees. We applaud the UK's leadership on aid to Syria, which makes us well-placed to pressure our European counterparts to increase their contributions. But until we accept responsibility for the refugees reaching Europe, we lack political clout. Mr Cameron's offer to accept 20,000 from countries neighbouring Syria is welcome, but only when we play a full part in the refugee crisis in Europe can we help lead an effort to solve the conflict in Syria. girish menon, ActionAid UK; chris bain, Cafod; loretta minghella, Christian Aid; mark goldring, Oxfam; Justin forsyth, Save the Children
+
Lexis+Story+Hundreds of thousands of Syrian refugees have been prevented from travelling to Europe by British aid money, David Cameron has said during his historic first trip to Lebanon . 
The prime minister announced the appointment of Conservative MP Richard Harrington as minister for Syrian refugees during a visit to a camp just a mile from the war-torn nation's border.  
Mr Harrington's appointment will be seen as a clear sign that Number 10 recognises it must do more to help, as home secretary Theresa May prepares to resist EU quotas to resettle migrants in the UK at a meeting on Monday. 
In a landmark visit to the overstretched region, Mr Cameron said "it is clearly in British interests" to donate millions to supporting countries like Lebanon as they struggle to cope with an influx of people fleeing the war in Syria. 
He reiterated his belief that putting British cash into projects in Syria and the surrounding region is the best way of preventing thousands of migrants from heading to Europe - as he met a mother of ten who had fled Syria for the safety of Lebanon. 
It comes just weeks after the prime minister vowed to welcome 20,000 extra refugees into Britain.
The prime minister travelled by chinook helicopter to a refugee camp in the Bekaa Valley - known as an informal tented settlement - where he saw how British aid money is being spent to support the 1.1million registered Syrians who have fled to Lebanon. 
The prime minister said he wanted to see for himself the scale of the crisis the country faces as it emerged that in over a third of schools in the country half of the children are Syrian. 
As many as 94 per cent of Syrians who have fled the country are still living in the region, putting pressure on surrounding nations like Lebanon, who have limited resources and over-stretched public services. 
Speaking during the visit, where he met families and aid workers, Mr Cameron said: "I wanted to come here to see for myself and to hear for myself stories of refugees and what they need. 
"Britain is already the second largest donor to refugee camps, to this whole crisis really helping in a way that many other countries aren't with serious amounts of money. 
"We will go on doing that, including increasing the amount of money we are giving to educate Syrian children here in Lebanon and elsewhere. I think that's absolutely vital."
He was being briefed by the UN High Commissioner for Refugees before meeting a Syrian family who will be resettled in the UK as part of the visit. 
Mr Cameron was invited into a tent where a Syrian mother was living with her 10 children. Speaking through a translator, the mother of 10 said that since a reduction in support from the World Food Programme, she had just five dollars a month for her family, which was not enough to survive on.
<!-- ver 0.5--> 
+
Lexis+Story+DAVID CAMERON warned today that hundreds of thousands more Syrian refugees must be "discouraged" from risking their lives crossing the Mediterranean after a weekend of tragedy in which 39 people drowned - including 19 children.
As he visited a refugee camp in Lebanon's Bekaa Valley, the Prime Minister also promised that thousands who have fled Syria's bloodshed would be offered a "good warm home" in Britain.
He appealed for the whole country to "pull together" to give a "warm welcome" to those offered a safe haven, including many orphans and other vulnerable children. 
Mr Cameron flew to the Middle East overnight as the refugee crisis escalated.
At least 34 people, including four infants and 11 older children, Continued on Page 6 Cameron: Refugees from Syria will have a good warm home in UK Continued from Page 1 drowned yesterday when their wooden boat with more than 130 people on board capsized near the island of Farmakonisi, between Kos and Samos. Two boats carrying asylum seekers capsized in the Aegean Sea on Saturday and at least five people were presumed drowned.
Germany introduced temporary frontier checks on its border with Austria, admitting that it was struggling to cope with the surge of migrants, many Syrian refugees, arriving in the country including 12,000 in Munich on Saturday. Austria has introduced tougher border controls and is deploying the army to deliver humanitarian aid. It may also be sent to frontier posts.
Fears grew of an eastern European backlash against the influx of refugees, with thousands of people attending an anti-immigration rally in Warsaw and hundreds joining similar protests in Prague and Bratislava.
Poland is preparing border checks and is ready to reject the proposed EUwide system of automatic quotas for accepting migrants.
Hungary's Prime Minister Viktor Orban ordered hundreds more police officers to the southern border with Serbia to help manage record numbers of refugees and migrants.
Police rounded up 5,809 people on the Hungarian border yesterday, bringing the number of illegal border crossings to 191,702 this year as tens of thousands of people trek through the western Balkans towards Germany.
Berlin - which has criticised Britain for not agreeing to offer a safe haven to refugees already in Europe - now expects a million refugees, rather than 800,000, to arrive in Germany and it faces criticism that its open-door policy is fuelling the migration from Syria and neighbouring countries.
Mr Cameron announced the appointment of a minister, Richard Harrington, to oversee his pledge to offer sanctuary to 20,000 vulnerable Syrian refugees currently in camps in countries neighbouring the war-ravaged country. At the Dalhamiyet Zahle Informal Settlement in the Bekaa Valley, which houses more than 500 people less than a mile from the Syrian border, Mr Cameron said: "Today I want to focus on how we help Syrian refugees here in Lebanon, in Jordan, how we make sure we discourage people from making this dangerous journey to Europe but instead we take people from these camps and we make them welcome in the United Kingdom."
At the camp, the Prime Minister met a family due to be flown to new lives in the UK and he was invited into the tent of a Syrian mother who told him she had just $13.50 (£9) a month to feed her 10 children.
More than 1.1 million Syrians have fled to Lebanon to escape the civil war and Islamic State.
Mr Cameron said the UK is the second biggest donor to the regional aid effort, behind only the US, having allocated more than £1 billion.
Some £60million of a newly announced £100million in British aid is going to support displaced people in Syria, £29 million in Lebanon, £6 million in Jordan and £5 million to Turkey.
+
Lexis+Story+David Cameron made a flying visit to a Syrian refugee camp in Lebanon today that is part-funded by Britain's aid budget and announced that he was appointing a minister for refugees.
As the flow of bedraggled humanity across Europe's borders accelerated over the weekend, prompting Germany, Austria and Poland to suspend the Schengen agreement and impose border controls, the prime minister met refugee children in the Bekaa Valley who are receiving schooling and textbooks thanks to UK taxpayers.
In the bleak surroundings of the Dalhamiyet Zahle camp, less than a mile from the Syrian border, he was invited into the tent of a mother-of-ten, who told him how she struggled to feed her family on handouts recently cut to £8.75 a month after the World Food Programme was forced to reduce support. 
In the camp 525 Syrians are crowded into 90 tents laid out in ranks behind a breeze-block wall.
At Sed el Boucrieh primary school, which has tripled in size to 900 pupils due to the arrival of the Syrians, Mr Cameron met Lebanese and Syrian children enrolling for the first day of the academic year.
The mother of three-year-old Lyn es-Shami told him that the little girl had already spent two years of her life in exile from her hometown of Homs, a centre of resistance to the Syrian leader President Assad.
"Around 3 per cent of the 11 million Syrians forced from their homes have sought asylum in Europe, and without British aid hundreds of thousands more could be risking their lives seeking to get to Europe," he said, repeating his stance that it was better to look after refugees in their region than to encourage them to uproot to Europe.
Mr Cameron announced that Britain was doubling support for Lebanon's state schools to £20 million a year for the next three years, to help them to cope with the influx of Syrian children.
He stressed that Britain was the second largest bilateral donor of aid to displaced people in Syria and surrounding countries, with the £100 million of help he announced earlier this month bringing the UK's total contribution over three years to more than £1 billion. Some 97 per cent of people forced out of their homes by Syria's civil war are still in the region, he said.
"I want to focus on how we help Syrian refugees here in Lebanon, in Jordan, how we make sure we discourage people from making this dangerous journey to Europe but instead we take people from these camps and we make them welcome in the United Kingdom, in our country," Mr Cameron said.
"We make sure there are homes for them to go to, schools for their children, a warm welcome in Britain."
Mr Cameron said he wanted the offer of sanctuary to 20,000 Syrians to be "something the whole country can be proud of".
The prime minister held talks with his Lebanese counterpart, Tammam Salam, who thanked him for Britain's "sustained decisive backing" for his country, which has taken 1.1 million Syrians - more than a quarter of Lebanon's population.
Some £29 million of the latest UK donation is going to Lebanon, with £60 million going to agencies and charities helping people in Syria itself, £6 million to Jordan and £5 million to Turkey.
As the prime minister held a press conference with his Lebanese counterpart in Beirut, Downing Street announced that Richard Harrington had been appointed minister in charge of the resettlement of 20,000 Syrian refugees into Britain. He will also oversee the spending of UK aid to help refugees in the Middle East.
Meanwhile Theresa May, the home secretary, joined EU interior ministers at a meeting in Brussels to discuss the controversial European Commission quota plans for EU countries to be obliged to accept their share of 160,000 migrants. Britain has declined to take part.
Mr Cameron has been under pressure at home and abroad over the fact that Britain has accepted just 216 Syrian refugees in the last year - far fewer than other European countries. Four million Syrians have fled abroad, with a further seven million displaced within the country's borders.
David Miliband, the former foreign secretary who now heads the charity International Rescue, criticised the UK's "inadequate" response as he visited the Greek island of Lesbos where hundreds of thousands of migrants have arrived in boats from Turkey this year.
"Nobody is suggesting Britain should take the same number as Germany, which has pledged 500,000, but on any conventional share-out of the UN figure... Britain would take 25,000 or so," he said.
"It has got to be part of a co-ordinated European response and I would say that the home secretary going to the European summit today needs to be part of the solution rather than standing aside from it." 
+
Lexis+Story+A million more Syrians could be forced to flee their homeland by the end of the year, a senior United Nations official warned yesterday.
Yacoub El Hillo, UN resident and humanitarian coordinator in Syria, said a predicted harsh winter could made conditions in the country, which has been ravaged by more than four years of civil war, even more unbearable. 
He said: "Unless something big is done to resolve this conflict through political means, the human train that has started moving out of Syria will continue to be running for many months to come."
The conflict has killed 250,000 people since 2011 and has forced half of all Syrians from their homes. Four million have fled the country and another 7.6million have been displaced within it.
Syria's neighbours have so far housed most of the refugees, with 1.9million registered in Turkey, 1.1million in Lebanon and 630,000 in Jordan.
But in recent weeks, tens of thousands of refugees have made their way to Europe.
El Hillo said: "It is safe to assume that more people will be heading to Europe, and rightly so, because the countries that have so generously been hosting these refugees - Lebanon, Jordan, Iraq, Turkey and Egypt - are also reaching, in the case of some of them, a breaking point."
He warned Europe could see a refugee crisis similar to the one after World War II that led to the creation of the UN refugee agency, the UNHCR.
Thousands of Scots joined candlelit vigils yesterday in a show of support for Syrian refugees.
Huge crowds braved the rain to send a message of hope to victims fleeing the war-torn country and put pressure on the UK Government to do more to help them.
Prime Minister David Cameron has promised to take in 20,000 refugees from Syria over the next five years but critics claim other countries are committed to welcoming many more.
About 5000 people attended the Glasgow Sees Syria vigil in the city's George Square and an estimated 1000 people took part in a similar event at the Scottish Parliament in Edinburgh.
Vigils also took place in Dundee, Aberdeen, Linlithgow, Shetland and Orkney.
Jeremy Corbyn attended a huge rally in London hours after being named the new Labour leader.
Similar events were held across the globe, including in Berlin, Barcelona and Brisbane.
Mum-of-two Alexis Stearns, 32, who organised the Glasgow vigil, said: "We put it up on Facebook and it started to spread. As far as I'm aware there were 36 all over the world."
International development minister Humza Yousaf and Glasgow City Council leader Frank McAveety addressed the crowd, alongside Amal Azzudin, who was 11 when her family fled the civil war in Somalia.
Yousaf said: "The people who are coming here and those that we are going to accept - and by God we'll accept them and make this their home - they are not migrants, they are not economic migrants, they are not immigrants but they are refugees, they are human beings."
+
Lexis+Story+Sir, I have a house on Leros, Greece. I have spent the past two months as a volunteer trying to help refugees from Turkey. Many have not eaten for days, stuck on an unpopulated island without water, clothes or shoes.  
I appealed to my friends for help, and donations came in. Friends of friends sent money, then through Facebook I received offers from as far as America and New Zealand. I collected (EURO)17,800. With a handful of volunteers (some of them tourists), we have fed 400 refugees once a day, every day: at one stage, 1,500 in one day. This money has provided food for about 16,000 refugees, and shoes so they can walk hundreds of miles further. We have also given out clothes donated by local Greeks. Others here are doing the same.
All this while all but a couple of Europe's governments (notably Germany and Sweden) did nothing. 
It is time to take refugees on a ratio based on country size and population. The other reaction is to go to Turkey and pick up refugees who have families in EU countries. 
There. Problem sorted. Now please get on with it.Dr Julie PeakmanBirkbeck College, LondonSir, Monday's EU meeting must respond to the refugee crisis, and address its causes. Millions inside Syria are struggling, with Lebanon, Jordan, Iraq and Egypt overwhelmed by refugees. We applaud the UK's leadership on aid to Syria, which makes us well-placed to pressure our European counterparts to increase their contributions. But until we accept responsibility for the refugees reaching Europe, we lack political clout. Mr Cameron's offer to accept 20,000 from countries neighbouring Syria is welcome, but only when we play a full part in the refugee crisis in Europe can we help lead an effort to solve the conflict in Syria.Girish Menon, ActionAid UK; Chris Bain, Cafod; Loretta Minghella, Christian Aid; Mark Goldring, Oxfam; Justin Forsyth, Save the Children
+
Lexis+Story+ABU GHAIS laughs wryly when asked why he chose to flee Syria. Caught between barrel bombs dropped by the regime and the terrifying brutality of Isis, whose fighters beheaded three of his relatives and stuck their heads on stakes, he says he had little choice.
"It's a strange question," said the smartly dressed 55-year-old, whose home and dental laboratory in the city of Aleppo were destroyed by regime air strikes. "Faced with the bullets and the bombs, who wouldn't leave such a hell?" Abu Ghais fled to Lebanon three years ago with his wife and four children. Now, standing beside a shabby coffee stand outside the port city of Tripoli, waiting for a ferry to Turkey, he is starting another journey - this one to Britain. 
"I want to go to a place where they treat people like human beings, not animals. I want a life for my children," he www.said.UK prime minister David Cameron has said Britain will take in 20,000 Syrian refugees - all selected from camps in countries bordering Syria. This, he argues, will discourage refugees from attempting the perilous crossing to Europe and undermine people smugglers.
Yet to judge by the mood in Tripoli last week, it will do little to stop Syrians taking their fate into their own hands. In past few weeks the number of refugees boarding ferries for Turkey has doubled as they rush to take advantage of a willingness by Germany and other EU nations to welcome them. They fear it will not last.
"Cameron can take 20,000 of us but it won't stop people coming," said Abu Ghais. "No one is going to wait around for him to choose who can and can't come in. It would be like waiting to win a lottery."
A week spent travelling through the cities and valleys of Lebanon is enough to understand why many Syrian refugees dream of making it to Europe. There are now roughly 1.5m of them living here - one for every four Lebanese, the highest per capita refugee population in the world - but no formal refugee camps.
Instead, Syrian families are scattered through the country, many crammed into tents made of burlap sacks or vinyl from old advertising billboards.
Others live in garages, on rooftops or in unfinished buildings. In winter they freeze; in summer they bake.
In Majdal Anjar, a village on the border with Syria, families are sandwiched between greenhouses on a dusty patch of land they rent from a farmer. Green water trickles through shallow ditches that wind beside the tents. Hadil Rahman, 40, has lived here for three years. She fled Homs when forces loyal to President Bashar al-Assad entered her neighbourhood at night and executed dozens of men of fighting age.
Earlier this year the UN World Food Programme halved the amount of money it gives to Syrian refugees, citing a lack of donor funds. Rahman receives (EURO)58 a month to feed her husband and their 11 children, none of whom she can afford to send to school. "All I can buy is a bottle of oil, some sugar and a bit of tea," she said, sitting on the concrete floor of her tent, cradling a toddler. "We are going further into debt just to buy food to survive. Of course we consider leaving for Europe. We call it searching for life."
Many Syrian families make ends meet by sending their children into the fields to work. In a nearby village in the Bekaa valley, Leila Sayed, 12, earns (EURO)4.80 per day picking cucumbers. She says she gets dizzy in the sun and her boss shouts at her if she tries to sit down.
"I understand why I am doing this," she said, recalling the fighting between Isis and opposition groups two years ago that caused her family to flee. "We are helping our parents save money to rebuild our home in Syria. Then we will have somewhere good to live again."
Lebanese security forces are cracking down on refugees whose residency permits have expired while the government has made it harder for them to renew permits. Many now fear arrest if they leave their tents.
About 85% of Syrian children in the Bekaa valley are unable to go to school. Save the Children runs classes for child labourers, but many too exhausted to attend.
"There seems to be a deliberate attempt by the Lebanese government to make the situation so tough for Syrians that they are pressured into leaving the country," said a European official in Beirut. "It's unsurprising you have so many trying to get to Europe."
Lebanese officials argue their country is buckling under the weight of the refugees. To make matters worse, the UN says it has received only 17% of the funds it needs. "We cannot take more or the country will collapse," said education minister Elias Saab. "Our financial situation is a catastrophe and we have been left with Syrians who are the poorest of the poor.
"That's why we are saying to the international community that unless you help them where they are now, the crisis in Europe will grow. Give them education, health and shelter."
The UN believes 400,000 Syrian refugees need resettlement. The international community has pledged to take in a fraction of that number. "Cameron speaks of 20,000 people being allowed into the UK over the next four years or so, but that's the same number leaving Tripoli in the space of three weeks," said one EU official.
Syrian families waiting to board ferries say there is little the West can do to prevent them from trying to carve out a better life for themselves.
"They can build walls and fences but we will break them down," said Hanif, 25, a university student who said he fled fighting in Syria to continue his education in Europe.
"If the European people are annoyed by us, perhaps they should take Bashar al-Assad and Isis instead of us, then we could all stay in Syria in peace."
@milesamoore
+
Lexis+Story+Tens of thousands of people have marched in support of refugees across the UK as the European Union prepared for its latest bruising battle over how to handle the crisis caused by the flood of Syrians fleeing their civil war.
In London, thousands of people - young and old, British, Syrian and other nationalities - snaked down Pall Mall and Whitehall on Saturday, many carrying placards and chanting "Say it loud and say it clear: refugees are welcome here", and pausing outside Downing Street to boo, with some shouting: "David Cameron, shame on you." 
There were dozens of similar rallies around the country, in Belfast, Glasgow, Cardiff, Brighton, Manchester, York, Edinburgh and other cities and towns. Tens of thousands also gathered in Denmark in support of the refugees.
They marched as ministers from across the European Union are preparing to meet tomorrow to try to hammer out an agreement on where tens of thousands of asylum seekers should live.
 Related: Solidarity With Refugees march - in pictures
Underscoring the divisions across the continent, several eastern European countries, including the Czech Republic, Poland and Slovakia, were planning anti-immigration events. All are part of a bloc of ex-communist nations fiercely resisting proposals for mandatory resettlement quotas proposed by the president of the European commission, Jean-Claude Juncker.
Most European countries are expected to unite in principle behind a voluntary scheme to find homes for more than 100,000 new refugees, but even if they can pin down that deal it will offer only a temporary solution to a problem that is still growing.
A senior UN official has warned that, if the war in Syria continues, a million more of its people may be displaced by the end of the year. With the conflict now dragging into its fifth year, around half of Syria's 22 million population have been driven from their homes and a quarter of a million are dead.
"Unless something big is done to resolve this conflict through political means, the human train that has started moving out of Syria and the neighbourhood will continue to be running for many months to come," the UN resident and humanitarian coordinator in Syria, Yacoub El Hillo, told Reuters.
A harsh winter has been forecast and the UN's food aid programme will run out of funds at the start of November, potentially leaving around 5 million people hungry inside Syria, El Hillo said. "We still have the opportunity to invest and help many Syrians stay in Syria. Otherwise this human train will continue running in all directions," he said.
 Refugees and migrants are already arriving so fast that even Germany, which has thrown open its borders to Syrians and said it expects around 800,000 arrivals this year alone, has warned that its asylum system is struggling. "Germany sees itself in a situation where we are reaching limits," vice-chancellor Sigmar Gabriel told the DPA news agency in the central city of Hildesheim on Saturday. He added that "the speed is almost more problematic than the number".
The foreign ministry says it expects 40,000 people to arrive this weekend alone. That is more than all the places for asylum seekers offered up by the EU countries in their last round of negotiations in May, and double the number of refugees the UK has agreed to take over the course of this parliament.
Most have been crossing into southern Germany from Austria, placing huge strains on the city of Munich. Some new arrivals are now being sent straight on to other towns, but the Bavarian capital was still expecting another 10,000 just on Saturday alone, police said.
Authorities there are now worrying about how to keep exhausted travellers separate from the thousands of revellers arriving for the annual Oktoberfest. They have asked the central government for police reinforcements to make sure the two weeks of drinking and partying goes smoothly.
"Especially in the evenings and the weekend, if we have drunk visitors of the Oktoberfest mixing with as many refugees as we have had in recent days, it could be a bit crowded and tense," regional interior minister Joachim Herrmann said. "We aim to largely separate those two very different groups of people, to prevent conflict situations from developing."
The pace of new arrivals is expected to eventually slow as autumn sets in and the sea journey to Europe becomes too dangerous for all but the most callous of smugglers. But with tens of thousands of migrants and refugees already travelling through Greece, Hungary and other European countries, the slackening might not be felt for several months.
+
Lexis+Story+CONGRATULATIONS to you and Dominic Lawson for making a rational analysis of the migrant crisis ("Generosity, yes, but we need a strategy too", Editorial, "The more we 'feel' for the refugees, the worse their plight will be", Comment, and "Exodus: the migrant crisis", Focus, last week).
There has been far too much focus on the undeniable human tragedies, which are so easy to find, and far too little consideration of the wider issues. The prime minister is quite right to insist that we should take refugees from the camps; any other course simply encourages more and more people to risk their lives trying to get into the EU. 
Western countries including, as you say, America need to work out a comprehensive policy to provide sufficient camps for refugees from Syria and elsewhere.
Richard Hoare Chichester SHARING THE LOAD Your editorial was right to point to the need for a long-term solution to the migrant problem, but it is difficult to see what can be done without the co-operation of all Muslim countries - a few have of course responded magnificently - which are the natural havens for these refugees.
The situation in Europe can be contained only if all EU nations work together. This seems not to be the intention of the British government, whose plan to take refugees from camps on the Syrian border, though helpful, does nothing to address the problem on the doorstep.
First safe countries such as Greece and Italy cannot be expected to take disproportionate numbers and it is critical that asylum seekers should be spread equitably between EU states to ease the inevitable social repercussions that will become increasingly serious.
The migrants would have to go wherever allocated, which wouldn't deter genuine asylum seekers. Patrick Campbell, Alicante, Spain IN DENIAL Everybody worldwide now is fully aware of the Syrian refugee crisis except Saudi Arabia, Qatar, Kuwait, the United Arab Emirates, Bahrain and Oman, some of which have armed the fighters and are thus part of the problem. Most of the refugees belong to the same Sunni branch of Islam and will not threaten the religious stability of these countries. Ali Kadhim, by email ON THE MONEY It is alarming that national policy should be formed on the basis of emotions. As you point out, the father of the drowned children was already in Turkey and working. He was foolish enough to take his family on a perilous boat ride; they could not swim and had no life jackets. The opening of borders to migrants has the effect of encouraging this tide.
How much better to use our money to help the refugees in the camps adjoining Syria, from where they might one day return home, rather than throwing out a welcome that encourages the use of dodgy routes across Europe. David Cameron should stick with this policy. Dr Kent Brooks, Kendal CROWD-PLEASING I wonder whether, if the refugees in Calais were held in asylum centres or shipped back to a suspected country of origin, the flood would stop. The constant pandering to the gallery will not help anyone in the short or longer term. However, with Twitter and Facebook an all-pervading part of life, politicians seem to believe they have little choice. Accusations of racism or xenophobia stifle debate.
Boat patrols and increased security are needed to remove the impression that Europe is an easy destination. Cameron is treading the line between playing to the gallery but keeping the British opt-out on refugees, and not appearing heartless.
David Waldron, Woldingham, Surrey HOUSE CALL There are almost 2m people here in the UK on local authority waiting lists for social affordable housing. Where are the proposed 20,000 refugees going to live? Sandra Hawke,Andover OPEN AND SHUT CASE I agree with Lawson that when the conflict in Syria is over, the country will need the most skilled and energetic to rebuild their country. This applies to Europe as well, where open borders mean the most talented and vibrant from Romania, Poland, Bulgaria and so on are bound (unless extremely patriotic) to move to states with a better standard of living. A closed-border EU policy but with incentives to businesses to invest in the less-developed countries would increase economic growth where it's most needed.
Patrick Hargreaves, Blackpool ENERGY COMPANY Perhaps an older generation understands history better, and is less moved by the almost voyeuristic and repetitive images on television, not to mention social media. I was in Croatia and Bosnia very soon after the "peace", and the older people were saying how the young needed to stay or return, as it was their energy that was required in the countries affected.
Margaret Graham High Wycombe FOREIGN EXCHANGE So it is now a "lazy argument" that calls into question Britain's role in the Middle East and in particular our invasion of Iraq in 2003. Our policy of invading nations, dropping bombs from planes or drones and destabilising countries and removing their leaders has without any shred of doubt led directly to attacks in Europe and, far from making this country more secure, has made it distinctly unsafe.
It has led to Isis and al-Qaeda recruiting from those in the Middle East and in Britain on the grounds that the West is launching "holy crusades" against Arab people. Apart from Suez, is this our very worst foreign policy decision? I think it is. Alan Dazely, Horsham, West Sussex MISSION STATEMENT The Arab Spring is a distant memory and Isis rules swathes of the Middle East. Pundits are long on analysis and short on solutions. Meanwhile, refugees flee the affected areas and head for Germany. Doing nothing is no longer an option; with the political will and leadership a coalition should be assembled to go in with massive force and a clear mission against precise targets, with a post-operation plan starting in Iraq. Syria is more complex and may mean a political deal with Bashar al-Assad as part of a phase-two operation. Tim Deane, Tisbury, Wiltshire HAMMER AND TONGUES The prime minister's solution to the humanitarian crisis is to bomb Syria. We should know from Iraq and Afghanistan that this does not work. Cameron would receive universal acclaim if he instigated peace talks that include America, Russia, Europe and the Arab states as well as the countries directly involved. It is easy to use a big hammer.
Mike Flint Daventry, Northamptonshire GUT REACTION Bravo - the best analysis of the Syrian refugee situation. Finally someone with the guts to say it. Name withheld, Dubai They can build walls, but we will get over them, pages 40-41
+
Lexis+Story+In this chaotic and confusing world, we have been reminded again of the overwhelming power of a single dramatic image.
Here in Canada, Conservative strategists privately expect the horrific photograph of little Alan Kurdi lying face down in the sand on a Turkish beach will be forgotten when Canadians go to the polls on Oct. 19. I expect they will be proven wrong.
Here are four things we have learned this past week from the world's deepening Syrian refugee crisis: 
1. As Canadians, we have snapped out of our slumber.
The hidden secret in the world of international affairs is that, globally, the Canada of Stephen Harper doesn't much matter anymore. In the 10 years of Harper's government, the influence and respect once accorded Canada in world circles has been significantly diminished. We are now seen as self-centred, ideological and unreliable. But the dramatic intervention by Canadians over the refugee issue indicates that era may be coming to a close.
Polls taken in the days immediately after the toddler's photos were made public suggest a developing consensus among the majority of Canadians. They believe these people are genuine "refugees" and that Canada should do more to welcome them.
2. Harper's policy is based on lies.
On the day after Alan Kurdi's death became public, Harper claimed that Canada has "the most generous immigration system in the world," which is absurd. In terms of Syria, the numbers of refugees who have been allowed into Canada have been virtually impossible to confirm, but are dismally low compared with other countries. The Conservative government has also introduced policies that favour "ethnic and religious minorities" in the Middle East, code for discriminating in favour of Christians over Muslims.
The prime minister also tried to score political points by emphasizing Canada's military campaign against "ISIS," or the so-called Islamic State: "We have to take a firm and military stance against ISIS and that's what we're doing." But he never mentions that ISIS is responsible for only a fraction of the deaths in Syria's civil war.
The most dangerous threat to Syrian civilians - which the Canadian government is doing nothing to combat - is the despised Syrian regime of President Bashar Assad.
3. Germany's actions best reflect our values.
One of the most remarkable images in the refugee crisis was seen last Saturday, when hundreds of Germans greeted Syrian refugees arriving by bus from Hungary. They clapped, cheered and handed out candies to the weary families, who responded with astonished smiles.
Among all European countries, Germany has led the way. It expects to accept 800,000 asylum seekers this year. German officials say they could take in 500,000 refugees each year for "several years." Their generosity is a reminder of Canada's track record in past refugee crises.
Germany's contribution is among the highest in the world. It is in the same range as neighbouring countries to Syria, such as Turkey (1.9 million refugees), Lebanon (1.1 million) and Jordan (630,000). And it puts to shame the wealthy Gulf states that have resettled no Syrian refugees, according to Human Rights Watch.
4. The world needs to end the Syrian civil war.
Above all, the Syrian civil war needs to end. But it will only end if more countries, such as Canada, pressure the world's major powers for this to happen. Although Russia, China and Iran all have been guilty of arming the Assad regime, the U.S. has also stood by and allowed the conflict to worsen.
When President Barack Obama was elected, he was determined to pull the U.S. military out of Iraq and limit U.S. involvement in other Middle Eastern conflicts. That became an operating principle, and there have been catastrophic consequences.
The Syrian civil war has lasted now for more than four years, resulting in 250,000 deaths - not to mention the massive refugee crisis that is haunting the world.
In an ideal world, where would Syria's refugees like to go? To Europe? To Canada? To Latin America?
No, to Syria, of course. Virtually all of the refugees interviewed in recent months have expressed the fervent wish that they be able to return to a stable, secure and peaceful Syria.
In the wake of Alan Kurdi's needless death, Canada's leaders need to get past their empty political posturing, and make this their country's priority.
Tony Burman, former head of CBC News and Al Jazeera English, teaches journalism at Ryerson University. Reach him @TonyBurman or at tony.burman@gmail.com
+
Lexis+Story+Crisis After four years of war, the Syrian conflict is now front of mind for Australians. Tony Abbott's initial response on refugees suggest he might have been on the wrong side of an historical event that has no end in sight, writes Tony Walker.
This was not shaping as Tony Abbott finest moment, but between the weekend and a meeting of the National Security Committee of Cabinet on Tuesday the dollar coin dropped that Australia could not both bomb Syria and refuse to take a reasonable quota of Syrian refugees. Abbott's clunky initial response to a photograph of a drowned small Syrian refugee boy fleeing for a better life was to adopt a defensive crouch by discouraging speculation Australia would absorb an increased intake of displaced Syrians beyond existing quotas.
By Monday he had realised this position was unsustainable in light of community agitation from across the political spectrum and strong interventions by senior colleagues, including the NSW Premier Mike Baird.
Abbott's advisers insist his initial caution has been misinterpreted, telling AFR Weekend that work on an increased refugee intake was well under way. Baird's remarks weighed, as did those of deputy Nationals leader Barnaby Joyce and former immigration minister Philip Ruddock who spoke compassionately - and persuasively - at a joint party meeting on Tuesday. 
Ruddock told AFR Weekend he had been warning of the "enormity of the Syria problem" for at least a year. "We are talking about millions of refugees, not tens of thousands," he said.
Ruddock was immigration minister when the Howard government issued temporary visas to enable 4000 Kosovar refugees to stay in Australia during the Balkans war in the late 1990s.
Most of the Kosovars have returned home, but no Australian official kids himself or herself that once settled here there is much prospect of thousands of Syrians going back to their shattered homeland.
Rather, an initial intake of 12,000 will most likely prove a downpayment on bigger numbers. Those refugees will presumably come mostly from refugee havens on Syria's border - in Lebanon, Turkey and Jordan.
"It's important that we act with our heads as well as with our hearts," Abbott said when responding to a question about why he had appeared to baulk initially at taking additional numbers.
"The responsibility of prime ministers, in particular, is to act in a measured and considered way, and I didn't want to rush into something before receiving advice."
Officials are recalling the resettlement globally of something like 500,000 Vietnamese boat people who had fled the communists in the years after the fall of Saigon in 1975.
Under the Fraser and Hawke governments, Australia took about 80,000 Vietnamese refugees in the 10 years after the war, many of them boat people.
The Syrian crisis in which some 11.5 million Syrians have been displaced, including more than 4 million outside the country represents an almost unimaginable challenge to refugee agencies and host governments.
No one is pretending that Australia's response will amount to much more than a "drop in the bucket", as one official put it, but it has proved a significantly larger drop than seemed in prospect at the weekend, judging by Abbott's initial response.
A senior Cabinet minister told AFR Weekend the challenge for his colleagues was to persuade the Prime Minister that the greatest refugee crisis since World War II could not in any way be compared with the asylum seeker "boat people" issue.
Abbott's advisers were telling him the same thing. "We all get it," said one. In such ways the barnacles encrusting a "stop the boats" mindset were scraped away.
In the end Abbott yielded to his better angels. But not before he gave encouragement to the belief his political instincts leave much to be desired just a week out from the critical Canning by-election in Western Australia to fill a casual vacancy caused by the death of Don Randall.
Abbott appears to have gained some kudos in the eastern states from his refugee announcement, but whether this resonates in Canning is another matter. While there have been discordant voices in conservative ranks, the broad consensus within the Liberal and National parties is that Australia needed to be seen conspicuously to be doing its bit.
"This is an issue that goes beyond politics," Dan Tehan, member for Malcolm Fraser's old seat of Wannon, told the AFR Weekend.
Colleagues have expressed irritation with South Australian senator Cory Bernardi and with Liberal leader in the Senate, Eric Abetz over what are regarded as their insensitive remarks. Bernardi's assertion that the drowned Syrian toddler, Aylan Kurdi, was not a legitimate refugee since he had been residing in Turkey after fleeing Syria several years ago occasioned outrage.
Abetz's call for priority to be given to minorities, notably Christians, was rebuffed by fellow Liberals. Baird, who is emerging as something of a conscience figure in the Liberal Party, said there should be no discrimination between persecuted Muslims or Christian.
Talal Yassine, a business and Muslim community leader, who came to Australia as a 4-year old in 1977, from civil war-torn Lebanon, welcomes the government's refugee announcement, but he would like to see numbers doubled.
"It's not sufficient," Yassine said. "It does not accord with Australia's grand traditions as a migrant country."
Government officials may not concede the point, but almost certainly feeding into the decision to make a relatively generous downpayment on the refugee intake is sensitivity to criticism over Australia's refugee policies.
Last week's New York Times editorial savaging the government's stop-the-boats policies did not go overlooked in Canberra.
"His policies have been inhumane, of dubious legality and strikingly at odds with the country's tradition of welcoming people fleeing persecution and war," the Times said. Officials decried the editorial, but there is no doubt on issues such as refugees and climate change the Abbott government finds itself outside the Western mainstream, and has suffered reputational damage as a consequence.
Among other factors weighing in the government's political calculations will no doubt have been Labor's demand that Australia take 10,000 Syrian refugees. Abbott has trumped that figure, burnishing his tattered humanitarian credentials in the process.
But as the world surveys what is arguably its greatest challenge since the end of World War II when tens of millions of people were displaced, it is hard to predict where all this will end, and indeed, how a refugee tap might be turned off given the continued destabilisation of the Middle East, parts of Africa and South Asia.
These are the stark figures: Lebanon has 1.1 million registered refugees from Syria, but Lebanese officials put the overall number higher at 1.5 million.
Lebanon's population is 4.5 million. Therefore one in four people in the country are refugees on top of 500,000 Palestinians in refugee camps.
Jordan has 630,000 refugees registered by the UNHCR, but estimates put the number as high as 1.4 million, or about one in five of the population. This is a huge burden on tiny Jordan.
Turkey is the other main refugee recipient. Something like 1.9 million Syrians have crossed the Syrian-Turkish border.
If the Syrian crisis was the only such crisis, it might be manageable - just. But it is far from the only cause of continuing instability and desperation among people worldwide seeking a better and more secure life away from war.
Yemen, for example, has turned into a humanitarian disaster. An estimated 1.5 million Yemenis have been forced from their homes by a protracted civil war. Almost half the country's population of 25 million is in need of food aid.
Further afield, instability in Libya where the country has effectively fractured in two is driving people to seek refugee elsewhere. Then there is the continuing outflow from war-torn Iraq and Afghanistan, bulging refugee camps in Pakistan and a refugee exodus from places such as Eritrea.
The UNHCR estimates that the world is awash with as many as 60 million refugees.
In light of all of this there seems little doubt that 2015 will be known as the year of refugee.
The bad news is that conditions in places such as Syria are set to deteriorate further unless the international community steps in to bring about a political settlement of a civil war that pits the ruling Bashar al-Assad regime against multiple jihadist groups, including Islamic state.
This is an extraordinarily complex conflict that may be beyond any form of resolution in which case Syria will be condemned to years more of civil conflict, and a continued refugee exodus.
Likewise, neighbouring Iraq continues to teeter on the brink of an unravelling that would see large numbers of Iraqis seeking refuge elsewhere.
Australia's decision to extend its aerial bombing campaign into eastern Syria to attack Islamic State targets may well add to internal dislocation as civilian populations seek to avoid becoming "human shields".
The Syrian regime's ruthless use of barrel bombs that inflict horrendous civilian casualties in urban areas shows no sign of slackening, nor is there any indication that IS is being pushed back from its strongholds in eastern Syrian.
All this is a recipe for a continuing flood of refugees that will demand more than a piecemeal response.
Philip Orchard, senior lecturer in Peace and Conflict studies at Queensland University, advocates a comprehensive global program, including increased humanitarian assistance to the countries around Syria; safe processing centres in Turkey and in either Libya or Tunisia, and a global resettlement program and provision for safe return for those denied claims.
One suggestion with merit is to create safe havens that would enable Syrians to remain within their country.
What is clearly required is a much better co-ordinated global response, and in this a newly sensitised Australian government might play a more proactive role.
Tony Walker is the AFR's international editor and a former Middle East correspondent.
+
Lexis+Story+Germany has put 4,000 soldiers on standby as it prepares for the arrival of up to 40,000 refugees this weekend. 
As thousands of refugees continue to stream north through Europe, Frank-Walter Steinmeier, the German foreign minister, warned that the country should be ready to receive 40,000 this weekend.  
The number is twice as many as arrived to cheering crowds and scenes of jubilation at Munich station last weekend. 
Munich is again expected to see the most arrivals, but by midday on Saturday the station was quiet and had not yet seen anything like the predicted numbers. 
Ursula von der Leyen, the defence minister, ordered 4,000 troops to be placed on alert to "tackle any emergency". 
The preparations came as Austria's Chancellor launched a blistering attack on the Hungarian Prime Minister, Viktor Orban, comparing his anti-refugee policies with the Holocaust. 
"Refugees put on trains in the belief they are going somewhere else entirely brings back memories of the darkest period of our continent," Werner Faymann told Germany's Spiegel magazine. 
Mr Faymann was referring to the trains which carried hundreds of thousands of Hungarian Jews to the gas chambers of Auschwitz in 1944. 
Such harsh criticism is almost unheard of between EU member states. 
Mr Faymann accused Mr Orban of pursuing a "deliberate policy of deterrence". Hungarian police have sought to prevent tens of thousands of mostly Syrian refugees from crossing the country on their way to Austria and Germany. 
Mr Orban has claimed Europe's "Christian identity" is endangered by the influx of mostly Muslim refugees. "It is intolerable to divide human rights by religion," Mr Faymann said. 
Meanwhile Mr Orban put forward his own idea to solve the crisis - by sending the refugees back to the Middle East. 
The Hungarian leader proposed that the EU should pay for the refugees to be given shelter in countries neighbouring Syria. He plans to put the idea to fellow EU leaders at their next meeting, he told Germany's Bild newspaper. 
"These refugees do not come to us from the war zone, but from camps in Syria's neighbour countries," Mr Orban claimed. 
He called for the EU to send (EURO)3bn (£2.2bn) to pay for the refugees to stay in the Middle East. 
The move would be funded by demanding every EU member state pay an extra 1 per cent in budget contributions, and by cutting spending elsewhere. 
Syria's neighbours have already taken in some 4m refugees fleeing the civil war in the country. 
Turkey has given shelter to the most, with 1.9m, according to the UN refugee agency. Lebanon has taken 1.1m; Jordan 620,000; Iraq 250,000; and Egypt 130,000. 
+
Lexis+Story+Another essential strategy must be to build international consensus to oust Bashar al-Assad
Three big strategic facts about the Middle East crisis emerged in a clearer light over the past week.
First, the arrival of tens of thousands of refugees at Europe's door forces the need to look for a political solution to the Syrian civil war.
Notwithstanding Germany's remarkable commitment to register 800,000 refugees, Europe can't and won't absorb potentially millions of people who would relocate if they could from the chaos of the Middle East and North Africa.
Second, the Islamic State group is looking more like a symptom than the cause of Iraqi and Syrian troubles. The cause is Sunni rejection of a corrupt and incompetent Shia government in Baghdad, increasingly under Iran's thumb, and of Bashar al-Assad's Alawite-dominated regime, itself a branch of Shia Islam, now being propped up with Iranian-backed Hezbollah fighters. 
As a majority Sunni country, Syria's political future must include a measure of power-sharing to give Sunnis a reason to return home.
The third and most profound strategic reality is that the Middle East's century-old European-imposed borders are breaking up. During the next few years Syria and Iraq may cease to exist and be replaced by smaller states with boundaries set by religious, ethnic and tribal groupings.
The challenge for the international community is to decide if this development should be encouraged or stopped - if indeed it can be stopped. The only assured short-term outcome is more bloodshed.
This sets the context for Tony Abbott's decision to extend Australia's strikes into eastern Syria. The military effect of Australian airstrikes will have some tactical benefit. Much careful analysis has gone into studying how Islamic State commands and supplies its forces in Iraq from locations over the border in Syria. Australian airstrikes will be purposeful but, in real-ity, not enough to destroy Islamic State.
The larger meaning of Abbott's policy change points to what The Australian reported yesterday ("Allies look to end of Assad") as the start of a push to mobilise international effort to stabilise Syria. That can be achieved only by removing Assad and defining a pathway to power-sharing between Syria's different groups.
Australia's broadened policy approach needs to deal with the three big strategic challenges of refugees, the military campaign against Islamic State and the politics of mobilising an international effort to oust Assad.
The decision to permanently resettle 12,000 refugees from the Syria-Iraq conflict is additional to the existing humanitarian program taking 13,750 refugees this year and addresses a humanitar-ian and a domestic political need.
It also highlights the inadequacy of President Barack Obama's decision announced yesterday for the US to take up to 10,000 Syrian refugees.
Even 10 times that number of refugees would not meet the scale of the crisis where more than four million Syrians have been displaced to neighbouring countries and a further 7.6 million have fled from their homes inside Syria.
The flood of arrivals at the borders of Europe leaves no time to assess who these individuals are. Speaking in Germany on Thursday, the most senior US general, Martin Dempsey, noted the surprising number of young men among the refugees and sounded a hard-nosed warning: "Somebody, somewhere in a very deliberate fashion has established a network for profit to enable these young men to escape their current conditions and into Europe." These people could be vulnerable to "those who would potentially seek to radicalise them. We all have to be alert to that possibility," Dempsey said.
The number of English-speakers among the arrivals in Europe suggests Syria's white-collar middle class has been best placed to make the journey. If they remain in Europe the task of reconstructing a post-Assad Syria will be much harder.
Those Syrians left in the refugee camps in Jordan, Lebanon and elsewhere in the Middle East have fewer options to move and are also prey to the extremist recruiters of Islamic State.
The only sustainable solution to the region's refugee dilemma is to make Iraq and Syria habitable for moderate Sunnis. A decisive military campaign against Islamic State is an essential precursor to any broader political solution. Critics of Abbott's decision to extend the campaign of airstrikes argue it isn't possible to bomb one's way to peace in the Middle East, but that is just a debating point.
The experience of the past few years shows it isn't possible to stabilise Syria by ignoring it or to defeat Islamic State by means other than using substantial military force. While Abbott and his ministers understand that developing a plan for ousting Assad is essential, a policy putting the destruction of Islamic State first is necessary and advisable for several reasons.
First, there is international support and a legal basis for the anti-Islamic State campaign but no consensus yet on dealing with Assad.
Second, destroying the Islamic State leadership is a realistic military objective. We know where the leaders are and the airstrikes seem to be getting better at containing their movements.
There is also a need to get a decisive advantage over Islamic State forces quickly. The caliphate remains a powerful ideological magnet for extremist radicalising Sunnis. The longer it exists, the more the caliphate will draw in foreign fighters and encourage terror attacks in other countries.
The best way to destroy the attraction of that ideology is to hand the Islamic State leadership a thumping defeat and to do that soon. It's hard to sustain a propaganda myth of invincibility when the leadership is forced to shelter in drainpipes.
On the other hand, a drawn-out campaign leaving Islamic State strongholds of Mosul and Raqqa intact for three, five or more years essentially spells out the de-facto partition of Iraq and Syria.
It may be that the Europeans - unusually enough - will provide the decisive military push for a stronger campaign against Islamic State. France, Germany and Britain are reported to be considering their options for deploying more forces. Stemming the refugee tide requires making Iraq and Syria stable enough for people to return home.
The third element of an international strategy must be to build a consensus to oust Assad. Obama has called for a leaders' meeting on security to be held in New York at the end of September after the annual ritual of leaders' speeches to the UN General Assembly.
The US President's summitry is notorious for being high on theatre but low on practical outcomes; readers will recall the Washington summit in February on "countering violent extremism", which the administration refused to acknowledge was connected with radical Islamist ideology.
Abbott and his ministers may get more international backing by talking to the Europeans first. Australia has added credibility in Europe because of the high-profile role Abbott and Julie Bishop played following the downing of Malaysia Airlines flight MH17 over Ukraine. Closer Australian engagement with Berlin and Paris would strengthen the case to put to Obama that more must be done for Syria.
What should the international community do about Assad? There are three initial steps.
First, the Russians should be pressured to encourage Assad to leave the country by offering him refuge. Moscow may have -concluded already that this is a looming possibility. The arrival this week of a Russian marine detachment at the Bassel al-Assad airport south of Latakia leaves open the option for a sudden regime change. A new Alawite general or minister in power creates a threadbare possibility for some negotiated settlement with opposition forces.
Second, using airpower from carriers and Mediterranean bases, a no-flight zone should be imposed on the Syrian military, which for the past three years has bombed its own population with impunity.
This appalling humanitarian violation could be stopped overnight with some well-placed cruise missiles destroying Syrian runways, combat aircraft and heli-copters. As the providers of much of this equipment to Syria, the Russians will object, of course, but they can see that the trend of events is running against their thuggish client.
Finally, serious international effort needs to be invested assisting Syrian Sunnis to prepare for taking a share of political power. There has been much international hand-wringing over the question of finding so-called Sunni moderates in the civil war. The answer resides with the four million Syrian refugees who have elected to leave their country rather than submit to extremism.
Within that group there will surely be people with the talent and commitment to run their own country. These people don't just need humanitarian hand-outs; they need a helping hand to -assume leadership in a federated Syria.
Global inaction over Assad - whose regime has killed about 300,000 Syrians - is simply intolerable. As a respected and consequential middle power that has put its own forces in harm's way in Iraq and now Syria, Australia can help shape a more promising future for these countries.
It turns out that global leadership can be shown based on ideas and practical commitment not simply size. Obama should take note.Peter Jennings is executive director of the Australian Strategic Policy Institute.
+
Lexis+Story+When countries are torn apart Syrian refugees - half of the 23 million population have been forced from their homes. Four million are now in other countries. Photo: Kate Geraghty Refugees have been seeking safe haven in the West for years. Recently, though, something has changed, says PATRICK COCKBURN.
It is an era of violence in the Middle East and North Africa, with nine civil wars now going on in Islamic countries between Pakistan and Nigeria. This is why there are so many refugees fleeing for their lives.
Half of the 23 million population of Syria have been forced from their homes, with four million becoming refugees in other countries. 
Some 2.6million Iraqis have been displaced by Islamic State - Isis - offensives in the last year and squat in tents or half-finished buildings.
Unnoticed by the outside world, 1.5 million people have been displaced in South Sudan since fighting there resumed at the end of 2013.
Other parts of the world, notably south-east Asia, have become more peaceful over the last 50 years or so, but in the vast swathe of territory between the Hindu Kush mountains and the western side of the Sahara, religious, ethnic and separatist conflicts are tearing countries apart.
Everywhere states are collapsing, weakening or are under attack; and, in many of these places, extreme Sunni Islamist insurgencies are on the rise which use terror against civilians in order to provoke mass flight.
Another feature of these wars is that none of them show any sign of ending, so people cannot go back to their homes.
Most Syrian refugees who fled to Turkey, Lebanon and Jordan in 2011 and 2012, believed the war in Syria would soon be over and they could return. It is only in the last couple of years they have realised that this is not going to happen and they must seek permanent sanctuary elsewhere. The very length of these wars means immense and irreversible destruction of all means of making a living, so refugees, who at first just sought safety, are also driven by economic necessity.
Such wars are being waged in Afghanistan, Iraq, Syria, south-east Turkey, Yemen, Libya, Somalia, Sudan and north-east Nigeria. A few of them began a long time ago, an example being Somalia, where the state collapsed in 1991 and has never been rebuilt, with warlords, extreme jihadis, rival parties and foreign soldiers controlling different parts of the country. But most of these wars started after 2001 and many after 2011. All-out civil war in Yemen only got under way last year, while the Turkish-Kurdish civil war, which has killed 40,000, resumed this July with airstrikes and guerrilla raids. It is escalating rapidly: a truckload of Turkish soldiers were blown up last weekend by Kurdish PKK guerrillas.
When Somalia fell apart, a process which a disastrous US military intervention failed to reverse in 1992-94, it seemed to be a marginal event, insignificant for the rest of the world. The country became a "failed state", a phrase used in pitying or dismissive terms as it became the realm of pirates, kidnappers and al- Qa'ida bombers.
But the rest of the world should regard such failed states with fear as well as contempt, because it is such places - Afghanistan in the 1990s and Iraq since 2003 - that have incubated movements like the Taliban, al- Qa'ida and Isis. All three combine fanatical religious belief with military expertise. Somalia once seemed to be an exceptional case but "Somalianisation" has turned out to be the fate of a whole series of countries, notably Libya, Iraq and Syria, where until recently people had enough food, education and healthcare.
All wars are dangerous, and civil wars have always been notoriously merciless, with religious wars the worst of all. These are what are now happening in the Middle East and North Africa, with Isis - and al-Qaeda clones such as Jabhat al-Nusra or Ahrar al-Sham in Syria - ritually murdering their opponents and justifying their actions by pointing to the indiscriminate bombardment of civilian areas by the Assad government. What is a little different in these wars is that Isis deliberately publicises its atrocities against Shia, Yazidis or anybody else it deems to be its enemies. This means that people caught up in these conflicts, particularly since the declaration of Islamic State in June last year, suffer an extra charge of fear which makes it more likely they will flee and not come back.
This is as true for professors in Mosul University in Iraq as it is for villagers in Nigeria, Cameroon or Mali. Unsurprisingly, Isis's advances in Iraq have produced great waves of refugees who have all too good an idea of what will happen to them if they do not run away. In Iraq and Syria, we are back to a period of drastic demographic change not seen in the region since the Palestinians were expelled or forced to flee by the Israelis in 1948, or when the Christians were exterminated or driven out of what is now modern Turkey in the decade after 1914.
Multi-confessional societies in Iraq and Syria are splitting apart with horrendous consequences. Foreign powers either did not know or did not care what sectarian demons they were releasing in these countries by disrupting the old status quo. The former Iraqi national security advisor, Mowaffaq al-Rubaie, used to tell American political leaders, who glibly suggested that Iraq's communal problems could be solved by dividing up the country between Sunni, Shia and Kurds, that they should understand what a bloody process this would be, inevitably bringing about massacres and mass flight "similar to the Partition of India in 1947".
Fostering communal hatred works in Isis's favour, and it is cross- infecting countries such as Yemen, where previously there was little consciousness of the sectarian divide, although one third of its 25 million population belong to the Shia Zaydi. Europeans were jolted by pictures of the little drowned body of Alyan Kurdi lying on a beach in Turkey and half-starved Syrians crammed into Hungarian trains. But in the Middle East the new wretched diaspora of the powerless and the dispossessed has been evident for the last three or four years.
What is to be done to stop these horrors? Perhaps the first question is how we can prevent them from getting worse, keeping in mind that five out of the nine wars have begun since 2011. There is a danger that by attributing mass flight to too many diverse causes, including climate change, political leaders responsible for these disasters get off the hook and are free of public pressure to act effectively to bring them to an end.
The present refugee crisis in Europe is very much the conflict in Syria having a real impact on the continent for the first time. True, the security vacuum in Libya has meant that the country is now the conduit for people from impoverished and war-torn countries on the edges of the Sahara. It is from Libya's coastline that floods of refugees have made their way to Italy so far this year, not counting the several thousands who drowned on the way. Yet, bad though this is, the situation is not much different from last year, when 112,000 made their way to Italy by this route.
Very different is the war in Syria and Iraq which has seen the number of people trying to reach Greece by sea jump from 45,000 to 239,000 over the same period. For three decades Afghanistan has produced the greatest number of refugees, according to UNHCR; but in the past year Syria has taken its place, and one new refugee in four is now a Syrian. A whole society has been destroyed, and the outside world has done very little to stop this happening. Despite a recent flurry of diplomatic activity, none of the players show urgency in trying to end it. Independent
+
Lexis+Story+Text of report by Norwegian radio on 6 September
[Report by Siv Sandvik and Trude Bakke: "Brende: 'Largest Humanitarian Budget in History'"] 
For the first time the Conservative/Progress Party government wants to propose a national budget that spends 1 percent of GNI [Gross National Income] on foreign aid. Meanwhile, they increase the emergency aid by 1 billion [kroner, 122 million dollars].
Budget leak: Finance Minister Siv Jensen (Progress Party) and Foreign Minister Borge Brende (Conservative) reveal that the humanitarian budget will grow from 3.4 to 4.3 billion kroner [524 million dollars]. 
"We are adding 1 billion on top of what we are spending on humanitarian purposes this year. It will become the largest humanitarian budget in history, but then we are also seeing the worst refugee catastrophe since World War II," says Foreign Minister Borge Brende to NRK [Norwegian Broadcasting].
Finance Minister Siv Jensen is also at the foreign minister's office at Victoria Terrace in order to disclose the following for next year's national budget:
-- One percent of GNI for foreign aid
-- 4.3 billion kroner in emergency aid.
Jensen: Absolutely Necessary
According to the ministers, a "considerable part" of the increase will go to help the population of Syria and the refugees in the surrounding countries.
"It's absolutely necessary to strengthen the humanitarian aid in this region," says Jensen.
The Syria agreement to accept 8,000 more quota refugees could use up more than the 1.5 billion the Storting has said Norway should give to the surrounding areas for 2016.
"This gives us opportunities to contribute more. With this we are the next largest donor to Syria and the surrounding countries (measured by population figure, journalist's note). It is also being done in connection with 1 percent of GNI. It's the first time this government is proposing this," says Brende.
Reasonably Pleased Hareide
Previously, the government supporting parties KrF [Christian People's Party] and Liberal Party had to force through the 1-percent requirement during budget negotiations. Now they do not have to do that.
"I must give Borge Brende credit for it," KrF leader Knut Arild Hareide tells NRK.
But that does not mean the government does not want to meet the KrF's aid demands when it has to look for a majority to support the budget.
"It's another three months until we are to pass this budget, and with the extraordinary situation we are now in we could need additional funds," says Hareide.
He is also worried that the increase in humanitarian aid will be at the expense of the long-term assistance.
Finance Minister Jensen says the precarious situation in Syria and the surrounding areas is causing the government to put a high priority on emergency aid.
"Now we have applied the money to humanitarian purposes. I think everyone sees that it's absolutely necessary," says Jensen.
Hoping More Countries Will Follow Suit
The United Nations is asking the world community for 4.5 billion dollars to help the Syria refugees. So far only 37 percent of the money has been received.
"I hope that more countries will contribute to fulfilling the UN appeal. If we manage that, we will help many more people, and we will potentially also reduce the number of people who are setting out on the dangerous trip across to Europe," says Jensen.
Until now only a small proportion of Syrian refugees has traveled to Europe.
The most recent figures from UNHCR show that there are 4,088,099 refugees from Syria in the surrounding areas.
Syrian Refugees in the Surrounding Areas
1,938,999 are in Turkey
1,113,941 are in Lebanon
629,245 are in Jordan
249,463 are in Iraq
132,375 are in Egypt
24,055 are in other countries in North Africa
Source: UNHCR
The number of people who have arrived in Europe is far smaller. According to the United Nations, 348,540 Syrians applied for asylum in Europe between April 2011 and July 2015.
Although the figures are low compared with the surrounding areas, Europe and Norway are also experiencing a sharp increase. Not since the Bosnian war in the 1990s have as many asylum seekers come to Norway as in August.
More than 2,000 asylum seekers arrived in Norway last month. That is twice as many as in August last year.
"Next year's budget will have to take into consideration considerable costs here at home as a result of what is taking place," says Jensen.
Source: NRK P1 radio, Oslo, in Norwegian 6 Sep 15
+
Lexis+Story+RECENTLY the BBC interviewed Swedish Professor Hans Rosling, statistician and a founder member of Medecins Sans Frontieres. In a few minutes he had covered the refugee crisis with a clarity and fullness I have not heard or seen elsewhere. He pointed out that about 80 per cent of refugees are fleeing from Syria, Iraq, Afghanistan or Eritrea: war zones where they faced death, rape and persecution.
Syria had a population of 20 million. Now about eight million are still in their own homes, eight million are refugees within Syria and up to four million are in camps in Jordan, Lebanon and Turkey, placing huge burdens on those countries. Fewer than half a million have headed for Europe. Many of those are leaving camps, where they have been for perhaps three years, because there is no education for their children.
Many have money which they have spent on trafficking, forced on them by European policies. Professor Rosling stated if an airline brings in a passenger falsely claiming refugee status which is not discovered until six months later, the airline has to pay the full cost of that impostor's stay in the country and his return to whence he came. A counter clerk has half a minute to detect the imposter. Airlines avoid any mistakes by carrying no refugees. 
Colette Douglas Home ("How far can our compassion towards the refugees stretch?", The Herald, September 8) praises the humanity of Nicola Sturgeon and Yvette Cooper for offering a place for a refugee family in their respective homes while implying they would be better looking at the bigger problem. This would include many ploys intended to discourage refugees. Why should European governments require the refugee to be in the country before registering them, taking six months for further verification while forbidding them to work during this time and, if they find some illegal work, threatening to deport them whence they came? 
Why are European countries unable to set up registration centres where the refugees start their journeys: Turkey, Lebanon, Jordan and North Africa? The UK will have to do this in the camps where it is cherry-picking the refugees it prefers. They could then be flown to the country they have registered with where they could find work while waiting for full verification. This would do much to lessen people smuggling and remove the cruelty of the "unforeseen consequences" of the cynical and paradoxical measures intended to deter refugees.
The bigger problem which Ms Sturgeon and Ms Cooper should be dealing with is how to end the war in Iraq and Syria. Good luck to them with that.
William Wood,
25 Chesterfield Avenue, Glasgow.
IN response to Margaret Thomson's rhyming letter (September 10) about Paddy and the engine, may I remind her that Aylan and his family were "there" because their city had been reduced to rubble and they were trying to escape from a living nightmare to a more stable and peaceful life, as indeed are hundreds of thousands of other terrified souls.
Perhaps we could come up with a more compassionate rhyme, something along the lines of "Refugees in the sea/let us heed their heartfelt plea/and give them sanctuary with you and me".
Ruth Marr,
99 Grampian Road,  Stirling.
THERE is no question that people from countries with poor futures because of wars, and/or lack of development, and/or overpopulation, need help. Taking in the migrants who are more desperate than their compatriots is unquestionably a humanitarian priority. It just isn't as simple as that.
There are many millions of many nationalities stuck in camps in the Middle East and elsewhere (Darfur for example seems to have been forgotten). It is just not possible for Europe to assimilate all, unless citizens accept the inevitable dilution and redirection of their ways.
Incomers will either add to their already present ethnic groups, or seek to establish their own. Is the intention to require incomers to return to their home countries as a soon as practicable? The flow is not a temporary phenomenon resolvable by taking in a few hundred thousand now, but long term because of the demographics of the originating countries.
Some countries would like to admit only those with wanted skills, indeed the SNP suggested that doing this would help to generate the growth needed to manage the fiscal deficit, but this deprives the originator countries of those who could propel them to the development necessary to reduce the pressure to migrate.
EU members have to adopt a more unified approach to these issues without pulling their punches about the very long term. Tinkering with single ideas like deposing Syria's Assad as being the solution is clearly flawed.
Joe Darby,
Glenburn, St Martins Mill, Cullicudden, Dingwall.
DAVID Cameron's description of the UK as a charitable leader in response to the refugee crisis bears some consideration. So far this year with the acceptance of 216 Syrian asylum seekers and the creation of 45 new members of the House of Lords the arithmetic looks interesting. At a rough calculation, 45 Lords at £300 each and a strenuous five-day week battling with London traffic (when in session) comes in at £67,500 per week. The 216 Syrian refugees sponging on generous benefits at £36 per week having crossed minefields and barbed wire (some freely supplied by this Government) come in at a total of £7,776 per week.Could our charity be called peerless?
Tom Healy,
Wester Essenside,  Ashkirk, Selkirk.
IT was both uplifting and depressing to watch some televised emergency debate in the House of Commons on Wednesday afternoon ("Robertson: Scotland could accept one in four of refugees coming to the UK this year", The Herald, September 10). This was on a special motion proposed by the SNP and signed by the leaders of all the other opposition parties, that the UK Government should take further and more positive action to help with the refugee crisis which is currently swamping Greece, Turkey, Italy and other areas of Europe.
Many of the speeches from the opposition benches were impressive, eloquent and in some cases moving. The initial cold-hearted response from the International Development Minister, Justine Greening, was to ignore all the desperate pleas for a more positive and humane response from the UK Government, and instead call for other European states to take a greater share of those fleeing from Syria, Lebanon, Libya, and Eritirea, and to offer a bit more financial support for refugee camps.
The SNP benches were full, supported by many MPs from the minor parties. But throughout the whole debate there were never more than eight or 10 Conservatives on the government benches, and not many more on the Labour side. Yet a succession of various Deputy Speakers (the Speaker John Bercow did not put in an appearance) stuck rigidly to the rule of alternate speakers being called from one side of the chamber or the other, so virtually every Tory was called and allowed 10 minutes, while SNP MPs had to share alternate slots with all the other opposition parties.
When the vote was called at 7pm, hordes of Tories suddenly appeared from nowhere, and the declared result was that the motion was defeated and the Government won by 311 votes to 259. Yet not 10 per cent of those who voted had heard a single word of the five-hour debate, and emerged from the bars and smoke rooms merely to follow the orders of their whips. Is this the last remnants of parliamentary democracy we are left with in the increasingly dis-united kingdom?
Iain AD Mann,
7 Kelvin Court,  Glasgow.
+
Lexis+Story+President Obama has directed the U.S. government to accept at least 10,000 refugees from Syria in the next fiscal year, White House press secretary Josh Earnest announced Thursday, a sixfold increase over the number admitted this year.
The new figure, which Earnest described as an "ambitious goal," reflected the pressure the administration faces to develop a more robust response to the humanitarian crisis that has grown out of armed conflict in Syria as well as neighboring countries. Earnest also urged nations in Europe and the Middle East - including some that don't typically welcome asylum seekers - to "ramp up" their willingness to take in Syrian refugees.
The administration's response comes a day after a top European Union official proposed spreading about 160,000 refugees across nearly two dozen E.U. countries.
The United States has lagged behind several European countries in its refugee aid efforts, largely because of time-consuming screening procedures to block Islamist militants and criminals from entering the United States under the guise of being legitimate refugees. 
Almost 1,600 Syrian refugees have arrived in the United States since the conflict began in 2011, according to State Department figures.
Many of the Syrians so far have ended up moving to Michigan and California, where there are sizable Arabic-speaking communities and where they often already have family, said Kevin Appleby, director of migration policy for the U.S. Conference of Catholic Bishops, which helps resettle a quarter of all refugees to this country.
When asylum seekers accepted for resettlement first arrive in the United States, most go to orientation programs run by a coalition of faith-based and refugee nonprofit groups. 
These groups receive federal funds to help welcome the arriving refugees and determine the best place in the country for them to relocate, find housing, learn some English and start looking for jobs.
As refugees, they are eligible for Medicaid and become permanent residents authorized to work in the country. After a year, they are eligible for a green card, and five years after that, they can become U.S. citizens.
"We want them to be able to transition to self-sufficiency," Appleby said. "The idea of the program is to stay. They could return, but most of them will stay. Then they'll try to petition for families to join them if they can."
As U.S. and E.U. officials scrambled this week to fashion a response to the massive influx of refugees from the Middle East and North Africa, former administration officials and foreign affairs experts said the current predicament underscored how leaders in both regions had failed to adequately assess the risks posed by the ongoing crises in Syria and Iraq.
European leaders have struggled to unite over a plan, with some countries such as Germany welcoming refugees and others such as Hungary being staunchly resistant. In the United States, the administration has faced pressure from lawmakers to do more.
Julie Smith, who served as deputy national security adviser to Vice President Biden from April 2012 to June 2013, said the administration repeatedly looked at how to cope with instability in the region but did not anticipate this chain of events.
"It was hard for us in 2011, 2012 to look this far out and imagine how bad this could actually get," she said. "There were many points in this crisis where it looked like [Syrian President Bashar al-Assad] would fall and the rebels would win the day. We allowed that optimism to color our policy" decisions.
"Shame on all of us for not thinking this through," said Smith, who directs the Strategy and Statecraft program at the Center for a New American Security.
Robert Ford, who served as U.S. deputy ambassador to Iraq in 2008-2010 and then U.S. ambassador to Syria in 2011-2014, said top policymakers were aware that as Iraq became increasingly unstable in 2012 and 2013, "there was an understanding the humanitarian situation would get worse and worse as the security situation deteriorated."
But he added, "I don't think in 2012 and 2013 anyone had in their heads there would be tens of thousands of Syrian boat people going into Europe."
At this point, "I don't think anybody's really surprised that this is happening," said Ford, now a scholar at the Middle East Institute. "It's a different question to ask what is to be done."
Lawmakers from both parties have expressed openness to the admission of additional refugees, even as some have faulted the administration for not doing more to address the root crisis in Syria.
Sen. Jeff Flake (R-Ariz.) and Sen. Timothy M. Kaine (D-Va.), both members of the Foreign Relations Committee, expressed support for the number released Thursday.
"That's showing we're playing our role with the international community," Kaine said. "But there needs to be a conversation . . . about what the upstream strategy is to halt the flow of these refugees from a pretty horrible situation."
Like many Republicans, Sen. John Cornyn (Tex.) called the refugee crisis a result of Obama's failure to properly deal with the Syrian civil war. Cornyn suggested that proposals to raise the existing U.S. cap on refugee resettlements amounted to "a Band-Aid on a bullet hole . . . an inconsequential patch."
Others were disappointed, saying the figure was insufficient. Among them were officials with the nonprofit and faith-based groups that sent a letter to Obama on Wednesday asking that the refugee cap be raised from 70,000 to 200,000, with 100,000 slots allocated for Syrians.
"It's a symbolic gesture," said Appleby, the official with the U.S. Conference of Catholic Bishops. "It's not going to ease the burden in any significant way for Europe or countries in the Middle East."
The U.N. High Commissioner for Refugees has submitted more than 18,000 names to the U.S. government. But it takes 18 to 24 months for the average Syrian refugee to be investigated and granted refugee status.
Earnest emphasized Thursday that while the announcement was a way of scaling up the administration's response to the crisis, "it does not, however, reflect the intent by the administration to cut any corners when it comes to the security protocols that are in place prior to any refugee traveling to the United States."
The United States ranks as the largest donor to the Syrian refugee crisis, and Jon B. Alterman, who directs the Middle East program at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, said in an interview that part of the motivation behind that aid "has been about keeping the problem over there and not having it come over here."
A senior administration official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity to discuss internal deliberations, said Obama's aides had been working for months to determine the upper limit of Syrian refugees the country could accept. "The president pushed his team to come up with an aggressive number that was feasible in the short term, recognizing this is a small part of the overall response, but an important part," the official said.
On Thursday, Earnest emphasized that the decision to admit more people displaced by Syria's ongoing civil war should not be interpreted as a reason people should "entrust themselves or their loved ones to a human trafficker or somebody who claims that they can get them into the United States."
White House officials have also made it clear that they have no intention of dispatching more troops to the Middle East, even as they emphasized that a political resolution to the fighting represents the only long-term response to the current humanitarian crisis.
"Well, I do want it to be clear that ultimately the refugee crisis is a symptom of the horrendous conditions in Syria, and that ultimately a lot of these refugees would presumably want to return home once conditions are safe," Eric Schultz, the White House principal deputy press secretary, said Wednesday. "So at the end of the day, the only true resolution to this will be a Syria that is safe for them to return home to."
Faysal Itani, a resident fellow at the Atlantic Council, said in an interview that he doesn't "anticipate that there would be a major shift in U.S. policy toward the Syrian conflict, regardless of the scale of the refugee problem."
But he added that even before the recent arrival of so many refugees on European soil, top administration officials had been discussing how to introduce "a bit more nuance and a bit more flexibility" into their resettlement program for Syrian refugees.
"There's a humanitarian strain" in the administration, Itani said, that had manifested itself in the policy discussions surrounding Syrian refugees. "It's not the dominant one, but it's there."
juliet.eilperin@washpost.com
carol.morello@washpost.com
Mike DeBonis contributed to this report.
+
Lexis+Story+Why would you stay?
Lance Sterling (Letters, 9/9) wonders why Syrian refugees would leave Turkey, a Muslim country, aiming for Germany. Well, religion is not the issue here. I ask you to put yourself in the shoes of a Syrian family I know. A mother, still in Syria, has seen one son murdered and another disappeared. The mother herself is too ill to leave Syria, so has to stay there with another son who tries to care for her. She needs regular and expensive medication, difficult to obtain.
Two daughters and their families have been forced to flee to Turkey. Another daughter has found refuge in Egypt.
Why wouldn't Syrian refugees stay in Turkey? Although Turkey is Syria's neighbour and has hosted millions of refugees, it is not an Arab country. On the contrary, it is openly nationalist and determined to maintain its Turkish ethnic identity. Add to this mix, political instability, historical enmity between the governments of Syria and Turkey, and lack of money to provide for refugees' basic needs. 
Would your daughters and their families want to stay in Turkey, where they are not welcome? Or would they try to reach a country where there is hope of safety?
Margaret Jacobs, Northcote
Arab states must act
While not disputing our assistance for Syrian refugees, Robyn Daly (Letters, 7/9) and Lance Sterling are correct. The silence on refugees from Arab/Muslim countries has been deafening. Saudi Arabia and other Middle Eastern countries are oil rich and have plenty of land, not to mention Muslim values, which they could provide in spades. How many thousands of refugees have these countries offered to take, and why is it morally incumbent on only the West to do so? When the Protestants and Catholics were slogging it out in Ireland, what obligation did the Muslim/Arab countries feel to intervene or assist?
Christina O'Sullivan,
Balwyn North
Our citizens come first
It is outrageous for the Abbott government to agree to permanently resettle 12,000 Syrians when most countries, especially wealthy Arab states, won't take any ("Refugee crisis: why aren't the rich Gulf Arab states doing more?", 10/9). We cannot permanently absorb 12,000 Syrians on top of the more than 13,000 refugees we take every year (not including family reunions). Many of the 50,000 boat people who arrived under Labor are still here, and on the public teat, and won't be leaving any time soon.
The ongoing welfare, healthcare, social services and housing costs cannot be justified given we already have rising debt and deficits, poverty and an "ice" epidemic. We should focus our charity and compassion on our 100,000 homeless Australians. Charity should begin at home. Refugees already overwhelm our public housing waiting list and the Syrian refugee decision will make matters worse.
Colin Douglas, St Kilda
Dispense care equally
Thank you, Julie Szego, for pointing out what seems to be politically incorrect to say: that Christians across the Middle East and beyond are suffering ethnic cleansing and brutal subjugation ("Abbott's Syria policies not decent or strong", 10/9). A decent nation does indeed advocate strongly on behalf of persecuted minorities and does provide places of safety for them, within that nation's own borders if necessary. But a decent nation does not look at a person's race, sex or religion to make that decision, only the danger the person faces.
We all engage in positive discrimination: from the products we buy at the supermarket, to the politicians we vote for, to the people we choose to help. As individuals, we have the right to do that. But our nation's leaders should make decisions based on the equality and rights of all people that we as a nation profess to uphold. While Jesus made it clear that his mission was to the Jews, he showed by his actions that he cared equally for the outsider. So please, Tony Abbott, advocate for the persecuted in the Middle East and Asia, but it is not decent to welcome only those you consider your own.
Michael Aylott, Glenroy
The greatest need
Congratulations to the Abbott government for recognising the anti-Christian ethnic cleansing occurring and providing a haven for some of this most persecuted minority. Naturally, the left decry giving priority to persecuted minorities and shamefully have been silent on this issue. The routine beheadings, crucifixions and sexual slavery inflicted upon Middle Eastern Christians should make them top priority for resettlement. They need the most help of all.
Jeremy Browne, Ripponlea
Our generous past
In 1947, millions of people were displaced. Australia had a large land mass; small population of about 7.5 million; a national war debt of $1,246,000,000 . We were shifting from a war economy to peacetime progress and many were still recovering from the 1930s Depression.
Amazingly, this small, quite poor nation decided to take in 12,000 displaced people a year. These refugees had to be housed, fed and employed. Housing was short and they were placed in former army camps, where they were fed, taught English, helped to find jobs and accommodation. Many were from Crete, Malta, Greece and Cyprus. The women wore black (for mourning) and many wore black head scarves. Some were Eastern Orthodox Christians and few spoke English. Somehow, we isolated "Anglos" managed to accommodate these differences.
Today, we are the 10th richest country, yet, we have finally offered to take 12,000 refugees from Syria. The problem is not financial, so why is our government so shy about inviting suffering people? This is not the time for ideological posturing.
Jennifer Raper, Brighton East
Founded in faith
Your otherwise excellent editorial on the achievements of Her Majesty the Queen ("The crowning reign of Queen Elizabeth II", Editorial, 9/9) neglects to mention the very basis of her character and performance, which is her deep faith in one of the world's great sacred traditions, Christianity. It should also be noted that, while she has undoubtedly furthered "democratic ideals", this does not mean that she has promoted egalitarianism, but that she has given her British and other subjects what they really want - namely a quality of leadership you have summed up so well.
Nigel Jackson, Belgrave
Clues on the inside
It is unfathomable that Corrections Victoria does not consider the specific history of a criminal always relevant - "whether indeed it is for murder or shoplifting", to quote deputy commissioner Rod Wise ("Killer was ranked as high reoffence risk by parole officer", 9/9). There are always (past) patterns to criminal behaviour and triggers. There are always clues in the dynamics of the internal world. There is always an internal crime scene. There are always subjective meanings to a crime. There are always clues in the emotional responses. It is almost a truism but if a crime has happened once, it is likely to happen again, even if it is 10 years on - things unresolved tend to get repeated.
The offender programs in the prisons, unless things have changed, do not specifically cater for men who have committed sexual homicide and they do not assess for or treat the internal crime scene. How many more young women, daughters and wives, need to be murdered before we ask the question posed by Sherlock Holmes: "What is the meaning of it, Watson? What object is served by this circle of misery and violence and fear?"
Pamela Nathan,
forensic psychologist, Kew
Not another payout
That larger ships such as "post-Panamax" ships cannot fit under the West Gate Bridge highlights the need for a second port to service Victoria's growing sea freight needs ("Ships may get too big to go under West Gate Bridge", 9/9). While the Andrews government wants to sell the Port of Melbourne for much-needed grade separations, the terms of sale could result in a large compensation bill to the Port owner, should a second port be built.
Coming on the back of the hundreds of millions paid to the East West Link consortium to cancel that road link, you would think the Andrews government would protect the state from future payouts, by allowing a second port to be built without a massive compensation bill.
Mathew Knight, Malvern East
A towering impression
Richard Wynne, I for one, of many people I know, love the way Melbourne's skyline is looking ("Law changes on city scrapers draw anger", 8/9). Coming over the Bolte Bridge it looks more impressive than most other cities in the world and is easily the best in Australia. Yes, quality is important but I say, go higher or go to Adelaide.
David Devlyn, Niddrie
+
Lexis+Story+The horrible refugee crisis in Syria, personified by the tragic death of Alan Kurdi, has focused our country on the need to do more. But what is more?
There are calls from across the political spectrum to recreate the spirit of 1979. Then, the Conservative government of Joe Clark, in response to the plight of refugees from Vietnam, launched an innovative program that massively increased the number accepted. The program continued seamlessly when the Liberals were re-elected in 1980. In total, more than 60,000 Vietnamese refugees were welcomed here. It was a great example of bipartisan collaboration and collective Canadian generosity.
We are debating how to recreate the generosity of that time: Could we accept another 10,000 refugees; an additional 25,000; or even an additional 200,000? 
Today's crisis dwarfs that of 1979: The challenge is not of tens of thousands, but of tens of millions. In Vietnam, some two million people became refugees over a number of years. Today, there are more than 12 million forcibly displaced people from Syria alone - more than four million registered refugees and another eight million driven from their homes but not considered technically refugees because they are still within Syria.
That country is just one centre of misery. There are millions of additional refugees fleeing conflict or oppression from Afghanistan, Somalia, Sudan, Libya, Iraq, Yemen, Eritrea, Myanmar and elsewhere.
According to UN High Commission for Refugees, there are almost 60 million forcibly displaced people around the world today - 20 million of them are refugees.
So back to our question: What is more? In an ocean of more than four million Syrian refugees, accepting 10,000 refugees is a small drop. Even 200,000 is less than 5 per cent of the Syrian refugees, and only a fraction of a per cent of the 60 million displaced people around the world. We face an unparalleled challenge in our collective responsibility to protect tens of millions of displaced people in the world today.
We can certainly accept many more Syrian refugees into Canada. This is the right thing to do and will also be good for Canada - with their skills and talents, they will help us build for the future. However, we need to go further. Let us not limit our help to welcoming refugees to our shores. Let us extend much more help to Syria's neighbours hosting millions of refugees. Let us help inside Syria too - affected and displaced Syrians still in their own country. Canada is indeed doing this, but we can do much, much more.
There are extraordinary organizations, staffed by some of the most courageous, committed people in the world, who know what needs to be done. Doctors Without Borders has boats rescuing refugees in the Mediterranean. The World Food Programme has a half-century of experience getting food to the most needy in the toughest parts of the world.
UNICEF, Save the Children and other NGO partners know how to get vital food and medicine, and equally vital schooling, to young refugees to prevent their physical or educational stunting.
They know what to do and how to do it, but they cannot, because they simply do not have the money. The UN High Commissioner for Refugees, Antonio Guterres, has warned, "We are so dangerously low on funding that we risk not being able to meet even the most basic survival needs of millions of people over the coming six months."
This is where Canada can step up. In 1979, the federal government committed 0.48 per cent of gross national income to humanitarian assistance and development. Last year, it spent only 0.24 per cent - barely half the level of 1979. A fraction of a percentage point may not seem like much, but it means that, as a country, we spent $4.5-billion less helping the most needy of the world than if we had been as generous as in 1979. We can do better than this.
Stephen Harper, Thomas Mulcair and Justin Trudeau should jointly announce the creation of a special $3-billion fund ($1-billion in additional annual spending for three years) to provide comprehensive, sustained support to young children such as Alan Kurdi and their families affected by the refugee crisis in the Middle East.
It should be for three years so that, without being open-ended, it provides the predictability needed to achieve the best impact on the ground. We know that, even under the best circumstances, the present crisis will not be solved for years.
It should include a mechanism to match every dollar given by a Canadian individual, foundation or corporation over this time. It should be all new money, none taken from existing Department of Foreign Affairs development funds.
This should not be a party promise - "Regardless of which party is elected, this is what Canada will do." For this reason, it should be separated from each party's separate engagements on whether to balance a budget or run a $10-billion deficit.
It might be called the Alan Kurdi Canada Fund, in memory of the tragic death that focused our attention on the larger tragedy, and finally galvanized us to take action.
The billion dollars a year would not solve all the financial challenges of supporting refugees.
However, it would make a huge difference to the lives of millions of desperately needy people. It could pay for a million tents, full food rations for two million people, education for half a million children and more.
This fund would encourage others to do more on the scale that is truly needed. On Nov. 15, G20 leaders will meet in Turkey.
Our prime minister, whoever he or she is, would arrive at a G20 meeting playing a leadership role on a critical global issue.
The Alan Kurdi Canada Fund would be a down payment on our collective commitment as Canadians to return to the international, caring role that we have played so well in the past and can play again in the future. We would not just be helping the thousands whom we welcome to our shores, we would be changing the lives of the millions in Syria and beyond who need and deserve our help just as much.
Robert Greenhill is former managing director of the World Economic Forum. Nigel Fisher is former UN regional humanitarian co-ordinator for the Syria Crisis and, previously, for Haiti and Afghanistan.
+
Lexis+Story+A chara, - Ireland's acceptance of 4,000 refugees as a contribution to responding to the ongoing humanitarian crisis is commendable. However, it is worrying to hear talk of "orientation centres" and Army barracks as housing solutions. 
For more than eight years I worked with young asylum seekers and witnessed the devastating impact of their experiences of living in direct provision. Facilities lack adequate privacy, isolate asylum seekers from the rest of the community and often breach child protection regulations.  
Implemented 15 years ago, direct provision was intended to be a temporary solution to the rise in asylum-seeker applications. To consider replicating this system, by another name, is shortsighted in the extreme. 
This is not the time for a "smoke and mirrors" act by the Government. It is time for courageous, authentic acts of humanitarian generosity to minimise the trauma already suffered by refugees. - Is mise, 
GRACE WALSH,
Scottsdale, 
Tasmania. 
Sir, - Simon Coveney has distanced himself from the stance of certain eastern European countries on only accepting Christian refugees ("Coveney stresses that religion should not be a factor in responding to refugee crisis", September 6th).
While on the surface this seems perfectly reasonable, in effect what Mr Coveney is doing is to prioritise his own need not to seem discriminatory over the actual experience of Christians and other minorities which tells us that they are far more likely to face discrimination and death. This, coupled with the fact that Christian refugees have far fewer countries to flee to where they will be safe (Christians have been beheaded from Tunisia to Egypt, and are unlikely to be accepted as refugees in the Gulf states) means that they need prioritisation along with other minorities.
While I don't believe in discrimination based on religion, I do believe in discrimination based on need, which is why I think Ireland should be prioritising Christians. - Yours, etc,
STEPHEN STAINES, 
Groningen, 
Netherlands.
Sir, - In responding to the question of the influx of Syrian refugees, some commentators have alluded to the "clash" that might arise should large numbers of Muslims suddenly comingle with European populaces.
The assumption that all Syrians are Muslim is false. It is worth noting that, until very recently, Syria was home to a sizable population of Christians (well in excess of two million). These include the Chalcedonian Antiochian Orthodox and the Syriac Orthodox, as well as the many Catholic branches (Melkite, Armenian Catholic, Syriac Catholic, Maronite, Chaldean Catholic and Latin). Indeed, in terms of history and diversity, Syria boasts one of the richest Christian cultures in the world.
Although fair distribution of migrants across European countries and other realms is a common concern, we must play our part in protecting Syria's wonderful heritage. Palmyra may be lost, but new pillars can be built in charity and kindness.- Yours ,etc,
Dr SEAN 
ALEXANDER SMITH,
Sandyford,
Dublin 18.
Sir, - If European Commission president Jean-Claude Juncker insists on making an analogy between the current migrant situation in Europe and 19th-century emigration to the US by Italians, Irish, Jews and other Europeans (World News, September 9th), he should acknowledge that even with a massive unexplored and underpopulated continent at their disposal, the American authorities still processed everyone at Ellis Island and "documented" them before giving them a new life in America. 
The current situation in the EU is not even vaguely similar. Rather it is a deliberate attempt by the Germans, under cover of the EU's feigned incompetence, to force down the cost of labour, make their exports more competitive, and provide for the largest ageing population in Europe. 
Certainly we should be generous and help refugees - we must help them as we would want to be helped - but let us speak frankly and not be treated as fools . - Yours, etc,
ANTONY ELLIOTT 
KELLY,
Hampshire, 
England.
Sir, - Áine Ní­ Chonaill of the Immigration Control Platform (September 10th) states that "The Syrians heading into Europe are not refugees from war. They were refugees when they crossed the border into Turkey, Lebanon and Jordan. Having reached there, they were no longer fleeing bombs and bullets."
Neither Jordan nor Lebanon ratified the 1951 convention relating to the status of refugees. As such, neither country is obliged to accept persons fleeing persecution in their country of origin. Turkey is a state party to the convention, but due to a decision taken at the time of signature, it is only obliged to accept refugees from Europe.
Nevertheless, and in spite of their lack of legal obligation, these countries have opened their borders in response to the Syrian conflict in a manner which should remind "Christian" Europe of the parable of the Good Samaritan. 
There are now 1,113,941 registered Syrian refugees in Lebanon - a country with a population almost identical to that of Ireland. Jordan has a further 650.000, while Turkey has also accepted in excess of one million. These countries are not shirking their moral responsibilities.
I have no doubt but that if the tables were turned, and if a million men, women and children arrived destitute on Irish shores, the Immigration Control Platform would (rightly) be calling on other countries to do more, and to take their fair share. Syria's neighbours have done all they can - we must now accept that it is our turn. - Yours, etc,
CATHAL MALONE, 
Carrigaline,
Co Cork.
+
Lexis+Story+The images are heartbreaking, the crisis is escalating and the calls for action are getting louder.
But for President Obama, there are no easy solutions to a Syrian refugee crisis -- just as there were no easy answers to the 4-year-old civil war that precipitated it.
The Syrian exodus is not the largest refugee crisis in history, but it may be the most complicated. Within Syria, ethnic groups and religious factions -- few of them friendly to the West -- battle the brutal regime of Bashar Assad. Outside, neighboring nations of Turkey, Iraq, Jordan and Lebanon are often unwilling to work together on a coordinated response, even as millions of refugees flood across their borders. And Syria remains at the center of a geopolitical struggle that involves the United States, Iran, Saudi Arabia and Russia. 
"I think the only thing we can do at this point is accept that Syria is a divided country," said Andrew Tabler, a fellow with the Washington Institute for Near East Policy. "But the problem with that approach is because the conflict in Syria is so intractable and isn't going to end anytime soon, Syria is going to continue to hemorrhage a lot of people, and it's going to hemorrhage a lot of terrorism as well."
More than 4 million people have fled Syria since 2012, the United Nations says, a number that has steadily increased since Assad's use of chemical weapons in 2013.
Once that red line was crossed, Tabler said, "you have a situation where Syria melts down, and as it goes on it gets more sectarian, more bloody and then the options get more expensive."
As a result, he said, "I think that we have always just treated the symptoms."
For Obama to be discussing refugee resettlement is one indication that the world response to the crisis has failed.
"Refugee resettlement is a strategy that's been the last resort," said Stacie Blake of the U.S. Committee for Refugees and Immigrants. "The first option for anyone who's in the situation of being a refugee is that whatever it is that's causing you to flee would be resolved and you can go home. If that is not possible, we might look for a solution in the country where the refugee fled."
But those countries -- some already fragile -- are inundated, with Syrian refugees now representing about a quarter of the population. Refugee relief groups say it's important for the United States to show leadership by taking on some share of the burden.
The Obama administration is proposing a modest increase in the refugee ceiling, telling congressional committees Wednesday that it would raise the number of refugees allowed into the U.S. by 5,000 a year beginning Oct. 1. Germany has proposed admitting as many as 500,000 a year, and refugee relief groups would like to see the U.S. take 65,000.
Even if Obama lifts the refugee ceiling -- now capped at 70,000 a year worldwide -- it often takes years, sometimes decades, for displaced families to work their way through the background checks necessary to gain entry into the country.  Refugee relief groups say the administration should do more to streamline that process.
Kathleen Newland, of the Migration Policy Institute, noted that the U.S. airlifted Bosnian refugees to U.S. military bases in New Jersey and Guam in the 1990s, giving them  haven while they were vetted. 
+
Lexis+Story+Prime Minister Tony Abbott of Australia said on Wednesday that his country would take an additional 12,000 refugees from Iraq and Syria, and would join in an air campaign against Islamic State forces in Syria.
''We have to act with our heads as well as our hearts,'' Mr. Abbott said. ''As a free and democratic country, we must stand against those who wish to destroy life and to build a terrorist state.'' 
  Australia will focus on taking in women, children and families who are members of persecuted minorities and who have sought refuge in Jordan, Lebanon and Turkey, Mr. Abbott said. It will also pay to support 240,000 people who have fled Iraq and Syria and are now living in neighboring countries, a cost expected to run $44 million Australian dollars, or $31 million. 
  On Sunday, Mr. Abbott had said Australia would help with efforts to ease the migration crisis, without pledging to take any more refugees, prompting criticism from opposition politicians who said the government needed to do more. The quota of 12,000 exceeds a proposal from the opposition Labor Party, which recommended on Monday that Australia increase its resettlement allotment by 10,000 people.
  Australia currently resettles about 13,750 people annually under humanitarian visas, a number scheduled to increase to 18,750 by 2018-19. The 12,000 places will be in addition to that quota, Mr. Abbott's office said.
  As a percentage of its population, Australia is the leading nation for resettlement of refugees under the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, Mr. Abbott's office said. But only about one of every 100 refugees worldwide is formally resettled in third countries.
  In recent years, Australia has taken a tough stance toward asylum seekers, turning back migrant ships from Southeast Asia and holding people in offshore detention centers. After the number of migrants from Bangladesh and Myanmar traveling by boat to Malaysia and other parts of Southeast Asia surged this spring, Mr. Abbott said Australia would not take in any of them.
  Australian forces that have been fighting against the Islamic State in Syria will now contribute to the American-led air campaign against the group in Syria, following requests of support from the Iraqi government and President Obama, Mr. Abbott's office said.
  ''The extension of the Australian Defense Force's operations into Syria will help protect Iraq and its people from Daesh attacks inside Iraq and from across the border in Syria,'' a government statement said, using an alternative name for the Islamic State.
  The Labor leader, Bill Shorten, said his party welcomed the decision to increase the refugee quota and also supported the expansion of airstrikes into Syria. But he sought to put curbs on the military operations, saying that they ''have to be constrained to the collective self-defense of Iraq'' and ''what is necessary to halt these cross-border attacks.''
  The plan to do more for asylum seekers from Iraq and Syria follows increasing public concern about the large numbers of migrants arriving in Europe each day, and the risks that many of them face in making the journey.
  On Monday, Britain said it would accept 20,000 refugees from Syria over the next five years, and France said it would take 24,000 over the next two. Jean-Claude Juncker, the president of the European Commission, on Wednesday urged the European Union to take in a total of 160,000.



+
Lexis+Story+ABSTRACT
It will focus on taking in women, children and families who are members of persecuted minorities and who have sought refuge in Jordan, Lebanon and Turkey. FULL TEXT
Prime Minister Tony Abbott of Australia said on Wednesday that his country would take an additional 12,000 refugees from Iraq and Syria, and would join in an air campaign against Islamic State forces in Syria.
''We have to act with our heads as well as our hearts,'' Mr. Abbott said. ''As a free and democratic country, we must stand against those who wish to destroy life and to build a terrorist state.''
Australia will focus on taking in women, children and families who are members of persecuted minorities and who have sought refuge in Jordan, Lebanon and Turkey, Mr. Abbott said. 
It will also pay to support 240,000 people who have fled Iraq and Syria and are now living in neighboring countries, a cost expected to run $44 million Australian dollars, or $31 million.
On Sunday, Mr. Abbott had said Australia would help with efforts to ease the migration crisis, without pledging to take any more refugees, prompting criticism from opposition politicians who said the government needed to do more. The quota of 12,000 exceeds a proposal from the opposition Labor Party, which recommended on Monday that Australia increase its resettlement allotment by 10,000 people.
Australia currently resettles about 13,750 people annually under humanitarian visas, a number scheduled to increase to 18,750 by 2018-19. The 12,000 places will be in addition to that quota, Mr. Abbott's office said.
As a percentage of its population, Australia is the leading nation for resettlement of refugees under the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, Mr. Abbott's office said. About one of every 100 refugees worldwide is formally resettled in third countries.
In recent years, Australia has taken a tough stance toward asylum seekers, turning back migrant ships from Southeast Asia and holding people in offshore detention centers.
After the number of migrants from Bangladesh and Myanmar traveling by boat to Malaysia and other parts of Southeast Asia surged this spring, Mr. Abbott said Australia would not take in any of them.
Australian forces that have been fighting against the Islamic State in Syria will now contribute to the American-led air campaign against the group in Syria, following requests of support from the Iraqi government and President Obama, Mr. Abbott's office said.
''The extension of the Australian Defense Force's operations into Syria will help protect Iraq and its people from Daesh attacks inside Iraq and from across the border in Syria,'' a government statement said, using an alternative name for the Islamic State.
The Labor leader, Bill Shorten, said his party welcomed the decision to increase the refugee quota and also supported the expansion of airstrikes into Syria.
But he sought to put curbs on the military operations, saying that they ''have to be constrained to the collective self-defense of Iraq'' and ''what is necessary to halt these cross-border attacks.''
The plan to do more for asylum seekers from Iraq and Syria follows increasing public concern about the large numbers of migrants arriving in Europe each day, and the risks that many of them face in making the journey.
On Monday, Britain said it would accept 20,000 refugees from Syria over the next five years, and France said it would take 24,000 over the next two. European Union officials met Wednesday to discuss a plan to take in many thousands more.
Cambodia agreed on Wednesday to take in more refugees from an Australian detention center in the South Pacific, despite having indicated earlier that it would pull out of a controversial resettlement agreement after having taken in only four people, Reuters reported from Phnom Penh, Cambodia.
Cambodia's prime minister, Hun Sen, held talks with Australia's immigration minister, Peter Dutton, and both agreed to stick to the plan to take small numbers of refugees from Nauru on a voluntary basis, a Cambodian official said.
''We want to have more refugees come, a group of four or five people at a time,'' Sry Thamrong, an aide to Mr. Hun Sen, told reporters.
+
Lexis+Story+                     Russia refused to join any scheme to help refugees on Thursday and blamed Western powers for Europe's migration crisis. 
The Kremlin has been the biggest supplier of advanced weaponry for Bashar al-Assad's regime in Syria, selling munitions that have been used to devastate large areas of the country. 
A trickle of migrants have entered Russia - but the country has granted asylum to only two Syrians so far this year. 
Nonetheless, Russia blamed the West for Syria's bloodshed and for the outflow of refugees. "We expect that for the most part that expenditures [for dealing with refugees] will fall on the countries linked to causing the catastrophic situation," said Dmitry Peskov, the Kremlin spokesman, according to Interfax news agency. 
Asked whether Russia would join any programme to help refugees, Mr Peskov replied: "It's hardly likely." 
He confirmed that some refugees from the Middle East had tried to cross Russian territory with the aim of reaching the European Union by crossing the border into Norway. Mr Peskov warned that terrorists from the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant  (Isil) could infiltrate groups of migrants, posing a possible security threat. 
The Kremlin has recently provided Mr Assad with more military support by sending a contingent of Russian troops to Syria. Their role appears to be to protect the Russian naval facility at Tartous, on Syria's Mediterranean coast, and provide training and expertise for the regime's forces, which are responsible for the great majority of civilian deaths in the conflict. 
 "The threat coming from Islamic State is evident," said Mr Peskov. "The only force capable of resisting it is the Syrian armed forces." 
Last week, President Vladimir Putin said that Europe's migration crisis was "completely predictable", adding: "These are the policies of our American partners. Europe blindly follows within the framework of its so-called duties as an ally - and then must bear the burden." 
+
Lexis+Story+jsimpson@globeandmail.com
There is a political narrative, and there is reality. The two seldom entirely meet, as with Conservative Leader Stephen Harper tying the Syrian refugee crisis to the military fight against the Islamic State.
It is true that the Islamic State's occupation and control of swaths of northern Syria pushed tens of thousands of Syrians from their homeland. That mass movement worsened a severe refugee problem that began long before IS fighters moved into Syria.
Although what is happening now is being called a "Syrian refugee crisis," with the Islamic State being a contributing element, it is more than that. 
According to Hungarian officials, for example, about one-third of the 150,000 people who asked for asylum there are Syrians. The rest were about 40,000 from Afghanistan, 25,000 from Kosovo and the remaining thousands from Iraq, Pakistan, Eritrea and other troubled places.
As the United Nations has explained, an important difference lies between refugees (those fleeing war zones and persecution) and migrants (people looking for better economic conditions). Clearly, many, if not all, of those from Syria are refugees; many of the others are migrants, and countries that try to deal with large numbers have to sort out the two.
Any country - and this applies to Canada - ready to assist Syrian refugees today has to understand the difference between refugees and migrants. They also have to understand that this year's surge into Europe will be repeated. A policy cobbled together for today is one that has to be applied, quite likely, for many years. And the worst place to cobble together such a policy is in the heat of an election campaign.
For example, the UN refugee agency reports that to date about 300,000 people have crossed the Mediterranean Sea, 200,000 landing first in Greece, 110,000 in Italy. In 2014, the number crossing the sea was 220,000. Next year, the UN predicts something in the range of 450,000. In other words, what we have been witnessing is not a one-off affair, but rather an ongoing flow of increasing force.
An estimated four million Syrian refugees are scattered around the Middle East: 1.9 million in Turkey, 1.1 million in Lebanon, 620,000 in Jordan, 250,000 in Iraq, 125,000 in Egypt. Like refugees everywhere, they presumably would like to return to their homeland, but it is devastated.
And even when violence stops in Syria - whether it remains as one country or is split into new countries - homes and livelihoods will have been destroyed. There will be little for which to return, except memories.
Farther south, the UN estimates that 830,000 people have fled the Central African Republic because of war there. An additional 750,000 people have left South Sudan, taking refuge in Sudan, Ethiopia, Uganda and Kenya. And then there are the thousands who have left Eritrea to escape violence.
As well, who knows how many actual or would-be economic migrants in Africa and the Middle East see Europe as offering a better life, no matter the travails and perils of trying to get there.
Immigration is a combination of push and pull, and the push-pull is entirely from south to north.
Therefore, if Canada is determined to help in a dramatically larger fashion, as the NDP and Liberals demand, then the country must be prepared financially, bureaucratically and politically to accept many more refugees from this vast array of the displaced in Europe, the Middle East and Africa, and for many years to come.
And if this is Canada's new policy, as these parties wish, then it somehow cannot diminish the number of refugees already being admitted from various other places on Earth, since to replace one set of refugees with another would serve little purpose, genuine refugees all being in some kind of need.
The European Union has been struggling with the latest surge and is urging its 28 member states to do their share. But there will be - there already is in some countries - strong resistance to taking large numbers. In Sweden, which has accepted more Iraqis than any other country, an antiimmigrant party leads in the polls. East European countries are strongly opposed to taking a large number. The Front National party, anti-immigrant and xenophobic, will gain strength in France. Poor Greece, on the front lines and economically a basket case, is overwhelmed.
Temporary tolerance is welcome and admirable; sustained tolerance under today's circumstances, and those surely to come, will be less certain.
+
Lexis+Story+Having finally bowed to public pressure to allow an additional 600 refugees into the country over the next three years, the Government would now do well to rethink how it selects them.
At present its policy is to give humanitarian assistance solely on the basis of need and without regard to religious belief. Impartiality is regarded as one of the fundamental principles of humanitarian action, and rightly so. A starving, homeless, Muslim child is every bit as precious as a starving, homeless, Christian child. Neither should be discriminated against.
However, in the current situation in the Middle East and North Africa, need and religious belief are inextricably linked, so much so that the level of need is determined primarily by religious belief. 
There are those who have somewhere to go: a country which shares their faith and refugee camps in which they will be relatively safe.
Then there are others who have nowhere to go: no country which will welcome them and no refugee camp in which they can find sanctuary. The former group are Sunni Muslims, the latter are Christians.
What few realise is that the UN High Commissioner for Refugees" camps in Turkey, Syria, Iraq and Jordan - all Muslim-majority countries - are not safe for Christians. The camps are filled with those who despise and persecute them and it is simply too dangerous for Christians to enter.
The only hope for Christians is to find churches or individuals who will give them refuge; not easy in countries with virtually no remaining Christian presence. The plight of Christians is worse even than that of the Kurds and Druze.
What this in turn means is that Christian refugees do not get registered with the High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) and are therefore not eligible for resettlement in countries such as New Zealand which fill their refugee quota through the UNHCR.
This is discrimination on the basis of religion, and by ignoring it, Western governments are perpetuating it.
There is a way to address this problem and that is to discriminate positively, to ensure that Christians receive the same level of humanitarian aid as Muslims.
Instead of filling its refugee quota through the UNHCR, the Government could deal directly with reputable aid agencies such as Barnabas Aid International, which have people on the ground in Syria and Iraq supporting Christian refugees and displaced persons.
BAI has recently launched Operation Safe Havens, a programme to provide a safe escape route for Syrian Christians. The Polish Government has already worked with BAI to provide a safe haven for 157 refugees.
BAI pays airfares and basic living expenses for one year, with Polish churches being co-ordinated to welcome and care for the new arrivals, ensuring that the families are helped to settle in, learn the language, and find work to support themselves. A number of New Zealand churches and individuals have indicated they are willing to do likewise.
Discrimination is a dirty word in humanitarian aid but the Government has no qualms discriminating in immigration. The wealthy and well educated get first preference.
The UNHCR discriminates positively in favour of those classed particularly vulnerable, including the elderly, children separated from their parents, and people with severe medical issues. Our Government accepts this discrimination because it is based on need.
In the case of refugees from Iraq and Syria, religious belief is the primary indicator of need. It is time this was taken into account. Discrimination in favour of Christians will not be an injustice; rather it will address a terrible injustice.
Rev Michael Hewat is pastor at West Hamilton Community Church.
+
Lexis+Story+Refugees and our security We need to make decisions soon on how many arrivals we can take and on who we are going to take in.
Continued on Page 4 T here has been much use of emotive terminology in Australia over the past week about the people movement crisis in Europe, and unjustified criticism of Australia's resettlement record.
To clarify, a refugee is a person who has fled his or her country and cannot return because of a well- founded fear of persecution.
An asylum seeker is a person who has fled from his or her country and seeks legal and physical protection as a refugee in another country. 
An internally displaced person is someone who has fled his or her home but remains within the country's borders.
A migrant is someone who moves from one country to another to gain better living conditions.
Internationally there are nearly 60 million people who identify as refugees, asylum seekers or IDPs.
Those travelling through Europe to Western Europe are either asylum seekers or illegal arrivals.
The asylum seekers are mainly Syrians who left refugee camps in Turkey and Lebanon to seek a better life in western Europe. The illegal arrivals are fellow travellers without documents who often claim to be Syrians, but are from other locations.
Both groups are taking advantage of Europe's indecision about what to do with them. Neither group has any automatic right to be registered to live in Europe because most of them would already have been registered elsewhere.
The xenophobic Hungarian government does not want to accept large numbers of foreigners, so it is referring to them all as "migrants" and trying to stop them from entering or transiting Hungary.
At the close of 2014, three of the six top refugee-hosting nations had a border with Syria. These were Turkey with about 1.59 million refugees, Lebanon with 1.15 million, and Jordan with 650,000.
Lebanon hosted the largest number of refugees in relation to its national population, with 232 refugees per 1000 inhabitants.
Meanwhile Syria had 7.6 million IDPs.
The other top refugee-hosting countries were Pakistan with 1.51 million, Iran with 982,000, and Ethiopia with 659,500.
It is not surprising that large numbers of refugees have become impatient with what could be a very long wait for processed resettlement, and departed for western Europe. Many of them would have been deemed low priority and never accepted for resettlement in developed countries.
According to the UNHCR Global Trends 2014 report, just 105,200 refugees were resettled last year.
The US admitted the largest number (73,000), followed by Canada (12,300), and Australia (11,600).
The UNHCR is not the only source of refugees - Australia's target for 2014-15 was 13,750, but Australia's focus is on helping those who have been prioritised by the UNHCR for resettlement.
And on Wednesday,the Abbott government announced Australia will re-settle an additional 12,000 refugees fleeing the Syrian and Iraqi conflicts, with a focus on women, children and families of persecuted minorities.
It is hard to judge how receptive Australians are to receiving more asylum seekers or refugees from the wars in Syria, Iraq and Afghanistan.
There is a very vocal pro-refugee lobby here but it is not clear whether the extensive media coverage it receives reflects broader public opinion.
An ABC poll on Sunday posed the question "The federal Opposition Leader says Australia should take in more refugees from around the world; do you agree?" Sixty-five per cent said yes and 35 per cent no. But on Tuesday when it asked "Should Syria's persecuted Christian minority be given priority as we select refugees to settle in Australia?"
The response was again 65 per cent yes and 35 per cent no. This suggests that Australians are in favour of taking in refugees, but would prefer them to be Christians - or by implication at least, not members of other religions.
Unprocessed refugees have national security issues From Page 1 Notably absent from helping the mainly Muslim Syrian and Afghan refugees are the wealthy Gulf States of Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, the UAE and Qatar, some of whom have been funding the opposition elements in the civil war in Syria that has largely contributed to the current refugee crisis.
In 2014 - between them - they took in 1698 UNHCR refugees.
By contrast with the refugee or asylum seeker situations, migration is motivated by a combination of push and pull factors.
Push factors include conflict, crime, environmental degradation, political persecution, discrimination, unemployment etc., while pull factors include a safe and secure environment, better wages, a chance for a better life etc. Australia is obviously a desirable "pull" destination even though our economic prospects do not seem favourable for the foreseeable future.
Unprocessed arrivals can have national security implications.
These include: people who have not been screened and may be undesirable for security-related reasons, creation of tensions between migrants and locals, encouragement of people smuggling-related organised crime, labour exploitation, and sexual servitude.
Processing takes 9 months which is another good reason for favouring people who are waiting in refugee camps.
Operation Sovereign Borders effectively stopped risky travel to Australia by boats, but most of the illegals now in Australia, probably numbering more than 60,000, have arrived by air.
Most seem to be visa overstayers and probably do not pose a security problem.
Australia has been a remarkably generous country, taking in more than 700,000 refugees and asylum seekers since World War II.
Most have contributed positively to our nation's development - but we need to decide soon, preferably with a bipartisan political approach, not only on absorbable numbers of future arrivals, but also on who we are going to take in.
Not to do so is to kick the can down the road and potentially create social and security problems that future generations of Australians will have to deal with.
Clive Williams is an adjunct professor at Macquarie University's Centre for Policing, Intelligence and Counterterrorism and a visiting professor at the ANU's Centre for Military and Security Law.
Notably absent from helping the mainly Muslim Syrian and Afghan refugees are the wealthy Gulf States of Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, the UAE and Qatar, some of whom have been funding the opposition elements in the civil war in Syria that has largely contributed to the current refugee crisis.
In 2014 - between them - they took in 1698 UNHCR refugees.
By contrast with the refugee or asylum seeker situations, migration is motivated by a combination of push and pull factors.
Push factors include conflict, crime, environmental degradation, political persecution, discrimination, unemployment etc., while pull factors include a safe and secure environment, better wages, a chance for a better life etc. Australia is obviously a desirable "pull" destination even though our economic prospects do not seem favourable for the foreseeable future.
Unprocessed arrivals can have national security implications.
These include: people who have not been screened and may be undesirable for security-related reasons, creation of tensions between migrants and locals, encouragement of people smuggling-related organised crime, labour exploitation, and sexual servitude.
Processing takes 9 months which is another good reason for favouring people who are waiting in refugee camps.
Operation Sovereign Borders effectively stopped risky travel to Australia by boats, but most of the illegals now in Australia, probably numbering more than 60,000, have arrived by air.
Most seem to be visa overstayers and probably do not pose a security problem.
Australia has been a remarkably generous country, taking in more than 700,000 refugees and asylum seekers since World War II.
Most have contributed positively to our nation's development - but we need to decide soon, preferably with a bipartisan political approach, not only on absorbable numbers of future arrivals, but also on who we are going to take in.
Not to do so is to kick the can down the road and potentially create social and security problems that future generations of Australians will have to deal with.
Clive Williams is an adjunct professor at Macquarie University's Centre for Policing, Intelligence and Counterterrorism and a visiting professor at the ANU's Centre for Military and Security Law.
+
Lexis+Story+Secretary of State John F. Kerry said Wednesday that the United States will open its doors to more refugees over the next year but would not say how many might be Syrians fleeing war and chaos.
"We are committed to increasing the number of refugees that we take," Kerry said after meeting with the immigration subcommittee of the Senate Judiciary Committee. "And we are looking hard at a number that we can specifically manage. . . . That's being vetted fully right now, and I think at the appropriate time we'll have a better sense of what exactly that number will be."
The flood of people seeking asylum in Europe is prompting calls for the United States to admit many thousands more Syrians.
In recent weeks, desperate Syrians have crawled across barbed wire and headed by foot to Germany seeking asylum. They are the vanguard. Hundreds of thousands and perhaps millions more migrants are expected to follow. 
Some lawmakers are saying the United States is not shouldering its share of the burden.
Fewer than 1,600 Syrian refugees have been admitted since 2011, the vast majority arriving just this year. Another 300 or so are expected by year's end. But that is a small fraction of the more than 18,000 names the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees says it has submitted for consideration, a number growing far faster than it is being whittled down.
The International Rescue Committee has called on Washington to admit 65,000 Syrian refugees by 2016. In May, 14 Democratic senators sent a letter to President Obama urging the same.
"It is not too late to do the right thing," said Sen. Patrick J. Leahy (D-Vt.) in a statement Wednesday after meeting with Kerry.
Noting that Pope Francis has asked Europeans to shelter refugees from war and hunger, Leahy added, "In the United States, we can do the same thing. We can respond, as we have before, with meaningful action that is worthy of a nation of immigrants with by far the largest capacity to act, as the world expects us to."
The United States has taken in 70,000 refugees from around the world in each of the past three years, more than all other countries combined.
But when it comes to Syrians, the United States has lagged far behind several European countries lately. That's largely due to the time-consuming screening procedure to block Islamist militants and criminals from entering the United States under the guise of being legitimate refugees.
As a result, it takes 18 to 24 months for the average Syrian refugee to be investigated and granted refugee status. The process takes so long that the UNHCR takes biometric images of some applicants' irises to ensure that when refugee status is eventually granted, it goes to the same person who applied.
"We're trying to weed out people who are liars, who are criminals or would-be terrorists," said a senior State Department official, speaking on the condition of anonymity about administration discussions on the refugee crisis. "This is something that slows down the process, and it's taken seriously by everyone involved."
The official said the United States had been planning to introduce a "modest" increase in the number of refugees admitted - not only Syrians but refugees from Congo, where human rights abuses are rising.
The administration has spent $4.1 billion on humanitarian aid since the Syrian conflict began. Some of that money has gone to help feed and shelter the refugees, and some has aimed to help neighboring countries such as Lebanon, Turkey and Jordan cope with the burden of so many refugees.
The goal is to keep refugees in the region instead of fleeing to Europe and beyond, a prospect that appears more unlikely with every passing day.
In Congress, some lawmakers oppose raising the quota to accommodate more Syrian refugees, fearing national security could be compromised if they are admitted without adequate scrutiny.
In 2009, two Iraqis linked to al-Qaeda were discovered living as war refugees in Bowling Green, Ky.
The concern about refugees from Syria is particularly acute because it is the base of the Islamic State, where militants have declared a caliphate and urged their supporters to strike against the West.
Although Kerry has said that U.S. security agents are "super vetting" refugees from Syria, Rep. Michael McCaul (R-Tex.), chairman of the Homeland Security Committee, worries that terrorists will use the refugee crisis to slip into the United States.
"Terrorists have exploited the refugee process to sneak into our country in the past, and officials have warned my committee that we lack the on-the-ground intelligence in Syria needed to confidently vet individuals for resettlement," McCaul said. "Before taking on any new refugee admissions, the president must provide assurances to Congress and the American people that our security screening is up to the task."
Jon B. Alterman, who directs the Middle East program at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, said that the push to accept more refugees into the United States is complicated by "a serious intelligence problem" posed by applicants from Syria, where the hurdles of gathering background information are often insurmountable.
"How do you vet people when you don't have a cooperative government to help you vet them?" he asked. "That, from a homeland security perspective, is a huge obstacle."
Sen. Timothy M. Kaine (D-Va.) called for creating a safe zone in Syria so refugees can stay.
"Why not create that safe zone in Syria so people don't have to leave their country," he said. "They would rather stay there if we can guarantee safety and basic comforts of food, shelter and medical care. . . . If we can create that, then people will come back."
Others acknowledged that the solutions would not be simple.
"It's a disaster, and we've got to figure out a way to play an appropriate role," said Sen. Bob Corker (R-Tenn.). "I want to address it more fully than just saying yes or no, but we certainly have a role to play."
Sen. Amy Klobuchar (D-Minn.), who co-wrote the letter urging the administration to accept more Syrians, said screening should be stepped up so more refugees could be admitted quicker.
"I want to continue strong screening," she said. "But there needs be a more major focus on getting screening done. I'm not calling for an end to it. I'm calling for making it a priority."
Although refugees have been coming to the United States throughout its history, the high point was in the Vietnam years of the early 1970s, when 150,000 to 200,000 refugees were admitted every year. But admissions ground to a halt after the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, and later resumed at a diminished level.
carol.morello@washpost.com
Juliet Eilperin and Karoun Demirjian contributed to this report.
+
Lexis+Story+Text of report in English by Iranian conservative, privately-owned Fars News Agency website
Tehran, 9 September: Iranian Deputy Foreign Minister Ebrahim Rahimpur and his Russian counterpart Igor Morgulov conferred on the latest developments in Syria and the conditions of the Syrian refugees in other countries. During the meeting in Moscow on Wednesday, the two high-ranking diplomats expressed concern over the regional crises, specially in Syria, and the situation of the Syrian refugees who have sought asylum in the regional and European countries for the fear of the ISIL terrorist group's attacks. 
Rahimpur and Morgulov blamed the ISIL acts and policies of those countries who have stood against the legal government in Syria for these crises.
They also underlined that Iran and Russia's measures in Syria have soothed the Syrian refugee crisis.
Tehran and Moscow have made abundant efforts to help the Syrian people fight against the ISIL terrorist group.
Iranian President Hassan Rouhani, in a joint press conference with his Austrian counter part Heinz Fischer in Tehran on Tuesday, said that Iran's priority was putting an end to the insecurity and bloodshed in Syria.
"Once this goal is fulfilled, it will be time to discuss political issues such as democracy and opposition in the Arab country," he said.
Rouhani underscored that Syrians should build the future of their country through popular voting and no foreign country can interfere in this issue.
He called for all countries to cooperate for the settlement of the Syrian crisis and reiterated that Iran is ready to sit at the negotiating table with any country or world power to settle peace in the Arab country, in case the negotiating partner understands that the future of Syria is an internal Syrian issue.
Also Russian Deputy Foreign Minister Michael Bogdanov affirmed the presence of the Russian military experts in Syria to train the Syrian army men how to use new military technologies according to joint contracts in the domain of military cooperation.
"Our military contracts with Syria are continuously implemented and different kinds of military equipment are being exported to Damascus... so training these new technologies are in need for services, and the Syrian armed forces are also in need for help and training," Bogdanov said.
Source: Fars News Agency website, Tehran, in English 1125 gmt 9 Sep 15
+
Lexis+Story+With an unprecedented number of refugees from Syria already in the country and more on the way, there is no longer a clear consensus in Sweden about what it should do next.
Sweden has taken in more refugees per capita than any other country in Europe, including Germany, even after its pledge Tuesday to accept 500,000 asylum seekers a year.
The two solitudes are evident in the main square of this bucolic farming town of 15,000 in southern Sweden, where one of every four residents is officially a refugee or seeking refugee status. Rune Nilsson sits in the sunshine on a park bench, eyeing a few Arabs 20 metres away on another bench. The scene repeats itself every day, with nary a word 
spoken between the two groups, says Nilsson, a 74-year-old retiree.
Yassir Mohammad, 35, is a school teacher who arrived this year with seven other men from Syria. None of them has a job, so they spend hours in the square, exchanging news from their homeland or about the status of their asylum applications.
"I was born here and will die here," said Nilsson, adding Astorp no longer felt like home. "This is the wrong time for immigrants. There are no jobs for them. Our government just gives them money."
Mohammad knows he is being glared at from across the square but takes the high road.
"Until now, I like Sweden. The people are lovely and kind, but we understand they are afraid of us because of all the blood that has been shed in Syria," he said. "We hope to one day get the chance to explain to them that this is not Islam. We are human beings, too, and we also love peace."
The exodus from Syria is challenging traditional notions about Sweden, a country of nine million which has prided itself as a refuge for those fleeing war. About 85,000, mostly Syrian, have arrived so far this year. The influx has been a boon to the anti-immigrant Swedish Democrats party, which elected its first member of parliament five years ago. In last year's election, it doubled its vote to 13 per cent and won 49 of 349 seats. Over the summer, as the refugee tide became a tsunami, its support in the polls rose above 18 per cent.
"We are not racist. Racists hate people because of the colour of their skin. We do not hate anybody," said Eddie Ek, a party member and Astorp municipal councillor.
Foreigners were taking public money and committing crimes, he said, but this was "not because they are immigrants. It is because the flow is so big into Sweden. We want to lower the intake to about 10,000 a year so that we can make them part of Swedish society."
"I am very proud that we are tolerant (but) you can be very tolerant of other cultures without having them here."
Speaking for what he said was a growing number of Swedes, he added, "In the depth of my heart I hope this won't become an Islamic country."
Azad Jonczyk, a Polish-Iraqi who emigrated 30 years ago, sees the debate from different angles. Since 2006, he has been the chief of integration for refugees settling in Astorp.
His task is complicated by the cultural divide. Swedes are generally quiet and introspective, and relaxed about relationships between the sexes. Arabs tend to be garrulous and show their emotions but are deeply conservative regarding social issues.
Another point of division is language - most refugees have trouble mastering Swedish.
That helps explain what has happened in Rosengard, a suburb of Malmo, Sweden's third-largest city, 80 kilometres from Astorp: more than 80 per cent of residents speak Arabic.
"I love it here because it feels like the Middle East," said Taghrid, a hijab-wearing Palestinian from Syria as she pushed a baby carriage past other women in similar attire. "It's special. You know, people in the streets, the smell of spices."
Such segregated enclaves are part of the problem, Jonczyk said.
"What they do at home, they want to do in Swedish society and they want Swedish society to accept that," he said.
"It is (the Swedes') country and their culture, and I think that people who come to this society have to acclimatize, not the other way around."
Sandra Johansson is annoyed by the Arabs' unwillingness to adopt their hosts' customs.
"To be honest, I don't like them at all," said the 26-year-old waitress. "I don't want to kick them out, but we must think of ourselves first."
Such opinions upset Lisa Adelquist who teaches 28 children of 13 nationalities at a school in Astorp.
"When I work with these children, I am very optimistic for their future and the future of Sweden," she said. "But when I think about the politics of this situation I become a little worried."
Bengt and Anvy Wahlgren, married for 41 years, are anguished about what Sweden should do.
"I worry because it isn't easy to take so many people into our society," said Bengt, a retired schoolteacher.
"It is true that we took in the Hungarians in '56 and the Yugoslavs after that and they have become like us now," Anvy said. "But they got jobs because there were jobs available then."
Lurking in the background of every conversation is the rise of anti-immigrant political parties.
"They will become stronger and stronger if something is not done about this situation," Jonczyk said. !@COPYRIGHT=© 2015 Postmedia Network Inc. All rights reserved.
+
Lexis+Story+New Zealand should help countries that have taken on the most Syrian refugees, as well as rehoming people fleeing war in the region, influential moral philosopher Peter Singer says.
Singer appeared before a sold- out audience at a Word event for the Christchurch Arts Festival on Monday night. 
He spoke on the day Prime Minister John Key announced an extra 600 people fleeing war in Syria would be rehomed in New Zealand. A further 150 Syrians will be welcomed as part of of an existing annual intake of 750 refugees.
Key said the emergency package would cost $50 million - about $80,000 for each extra refugee.
Singer said those figures sounded high, but it was an effective way of helping people.
He is a utilitarian philosopher whose latest book, The Most Good You Can Do, looks at how to ensure money donated to charity achieves the best results.
Giving $80,000 to a charity like the Against Malaria Foundation, which claimed it could save a life for every $3000 it received, could save 25 people instead of one refugee. "But, of course, the political reality is that will not happen, that money will instead be spent on something that will probably do less good than taking the refugees, so, given that, I would recommend that you take them."
Singer also said that regime change in Syria would be less effective than helping countries, like Lebanon, that have taken on the most Syrian refugees.
"It is very hard to enact charity in Syria at the moment, but it is also very hard to enact regime change. You have to think about what the costs of that might be," he said. "There are better things that you could do with that money. Other things that you could be doing, in addition to taking Syrian refugees here, is helping those countries that have already enormous amounts of Syrian refugees."
New Zealand was talking about taking 600 refugees, while Lebanon currently had 232 Syrian refugees for every 1000 Lebanese - making almost one in five a Syrian refugee.
"Work out how many New Zealand would have to take to make that level. So, Lebanon needs help in supporting them. Those places need help too."
--------------------
CAPTION:
Peter Singer
+
Lexis+Story+With an unprecedented number of refugees from Syria already in the country and more on the way, there is no longer a clear consensus in Sweden about what it should do next.
Sweden has taken in more refugees per capita than any other country in Europe, including Germany, even after its pledge Tuesday to accept 500,000 asylum seekers a year.
The two solitudes are evident in the main square of this bucolic farming town of 15,000 in southern Sweden, where one of every four residents is officially a refugee or seeking refugee status. 
Rune Nilsson sits in the sunshine on a park bench, eyeing a few Arabs 20 metres away on another bench. The scene repeats itself every day, with nary a word spoken between the two groups, says Nilsson, a 74-year-old retiree.
Yassir Mohammad, 35, is a school teacher who arrived this year with seven other men from Syria. None of them has a job, so they spend hours in the square, exchanging news from their homeland or about the status of their asylum applications.
"I was born here and will die here," said Nilsson, adding Astorp no longer felt like home. "This is the wrong time for immigrants. There are no jobs for them. Our government just gives them money."
Mohammad knows he is being glared at from across the square but takes the high road.
"Until now, I like Sweden. The people are lovely and kind, but we understand they are afraid of us because of all the blood that has been shed in Syria," he said. "We hope to one day get the chance to explain to them that this is not Islam. We are human beings, too, and we also love peace."
The exodus from Syria is challenging traditional notions about Sweden, a country of nine million that has prided itself as a refuge for those fleeing war. About 85,000, mostly Syrian, have arrived so far this year.
The influx has been a boon to the anti-immigrant Swedish Democrats party, which elected its first member of parliament five years ago. In last year's election, it doubled its vote to 13 per cent and won 49 of 349 seats. Over the summer, as the refugee tide became a tsunami, its support in the polls rose above 18 per cent.
"We are not racist. Racists hate people because of the colour of their skin. We do not hate anybody," said Eddie Ek, a party member and Astorp municipal councillor.
Foreigners were taking public money and committing crimes, he said, but this was "not because they are immigrants. It is because the flow is so big into Sweden. We want to lower the intake to about 10,000 a year so that we can make them part of Swedish society.
"I am very proud that we are tolerant, (but) you can be very tolerant of other cultures without having them here."
Speaking for what he said was a growing number of Swedes, he added, "In the depth of my heart I hope this won't become an Islamic country."
Azad Jonczyk, a Polish-Iraqi who emigrated 30 years ago, sees the debate from different angles. Since 2006, he has been the chief of integration for refugees settling in Astorp.
His task is complicated by the cultural divide. Swedes are generally quiet and introspective, and relaxed about relationships between the sexes. Arabs tend to be garrulous awnd show their emotions but are deeply conservative regarding social issues.
Another point of division is language - most refugees have trouble mastering Swedish.
That helps explain what has happened in Rosengard, a suburb of Malmo, Sweden's third-largest city, 80 kilometres from Astorp: more than 80 per cent of residents speak Arabic.
"I love it here because it feels like the Middle East," said Taghrid, a hijabwearing Palestinian from Syria as she pushed a baby carriage past other women in similar attire. "It's special. You know, people in the streets, the smell of spices."
Such segregated enclaves are part of the problem, Jonczyk said.
"What they do at home, they want to do in Swedish society and they want Swedish society to accept that," he said.
"It is (the Swedes') country and their culture, and I think that people who come to this society have to acclimatize, not the other way around." Sandra Johansson is annoyed by the Arabs' unwillingness to adopt their hosts' customs.
"To be honest, I don't like them at all," said the 26-year-old waitress. "I don't want to kick them out, but we must think of ourselves first."
Such opinions upset Lisa Adelquist who teaches 28 children of 13 nationalities at a school in Astorp.
"When I work with these children, I am very optimistic for their future and the future of Sweden," she said.
"But when I think about the politics of this situation I become a little worried ..."
Bengt and Anvy Wahlgren, married for 41 years, are anguished about what Sweden should do.
"I worry because it isn't easy to take so many people into our society," said Bengt, a retired schoolteacher.
"It is true that we took in the Hungarians in '56 and the Yugoslavs after that and they have become like us now," Anvy said. "But they got jobs because there were jobs available then."
Lurking in the background of every conversation is the rise of anti-immigrant political parties.
"They will become stronger and stronger if something is not done about this situation," Jonczyk said. !@COPYRIGHT=© 2015 Postmedia Network Inc. All rights reserved.
+
Lexis+Story+Just like the Kosovo refugee images during the long Easter weekend in April 1999, the recent pictures of Syrians trying to find refuge in Europe appear to have mobilized Canadian public opinion during the long Labour Day weekend. As political leaders work through the appropriate humanitarian response, we should consider some lessons from the last successful refugee burden-sharing operation in Europe: the UN-supported Humanitarian Evacuation Program during the Kosovo crisis.
Key Western countries, including Canada, set up teams in neighbouring Macedonia that selected 92,000 Kosovo refugees who were flown out to host countries within eight weeks of that dramatic Easter weekend 16 years ago. If there is political will, governments have demonstrated that many refugees can be brought quickly to safety. 
Given the current Canadian public reaction, private sponsorships can be an effective tool to increase refugee intake as long as the federal government decides to devote the administrative resources to make this operation a priority. In the same way that refugees were chosen from Macedonian camps bordering Kosovo, the Canadian embassies in Ankara, Beirut and Amman will have to coordinate the selection of Syrians who have been stuck in swollen refugee camps neighbouring the conflict zone.
Despite having resettled 5,000 refugees from Kosovo within weeks, Canada played a limited role in the overall response because most refugees wanted to go elsewhere. It was somewhat ignored in all the feel-good self-promotion, but many of those selected by Canadian officials never showed up for the airport bus because they preferred offers from other countries. Just as with Syrian refugees, Germany was a particularly popular destination, along with northern European countries like England and Sweden.
Some European governments have already announced the deployment of resettlement teams to Turkey, so Canada will have to respond quickly. It is likely that significant numbers of Syrians will choose Canada if given the option. Along with bilingualism (Syria was a French mandate during part of the 20th century, while English is lately becoming prevalent), many Syrians will appreciate the possibility of joining family members who have already immigrated to Canada. Contrary to many European countries, Canada also offers something Syrians will find attractive: a secure status that leads quickly to citizenship.
We need to look at the region of origin when considering the overall strategy. Unlike Lebanon and Jordan, Turkey encouraged regime change in Damascus from the outset of the uprising. If Turkish authorities are not willing to take more than twomillion
Syrian refugees, these civilian victims will head out to our NATO allies in Europe. Very few are going to the rich Gulf states, despite the fact that they, like Turkey, have been deeply involved in the rebellion against Syrian President Bashar al-Assad.
The conditions in Turkish refugee camps are not the only problem. As Turkey does not recognize refugees from anywhere except Europe (this is a little-known exception in the Refugee Convention that allows blatant discrimination), Syrians must rely on the UN refugee agency to provide them with a status that can be recognized elsewhere. Turkey has also deliberately set up the camps near the Syrian border, thereby contributing to the general militarization of the area and the flow of fighters (including ISIL militants) to Syria.
While there are operational details to work out regarding Canada's resettlement program, the dilemmas stem from other more complicated problems. Only a minority of the migrants travelling dangerously to Europe on the main routes (e.g., from Turkey via Macedonia to Hungary) are from Syria. Public support for non-Syrians fleeing desperate conditions will not come as easily. Likewise, we cannot ignore that ISIL announced months ago that it will use refugee flows to destabilize Europe and to infiltrate militants.
While Canada cannot resolve all humanitarian problems, private sponsorship of Syrian refugees with careful security verification by government officials is appropriate and contributes to a larger comprehensive strategy. Let us hope that Canadian leaders realize that the Syrian conflict will not be resolved simply by military action against ISIL, and that it will inevitably have to come from diplomatic compromises with many unpleasant local and regional actors.
Michael Barutciski is a lawyer and faculty member at Toronto's Glendon College (York University). During the Kosovo refugee crisis, he taught at Oxford University's refugee studies centre and was the main co-author of the UN's evaluation of the evacuation program. !@COPYRIGHT=© 2015 Postmedia Network Inc. All rights reserved.
+
Lexis+Story+. Russia is prepared to accept refugees from Syria and Libya, if they do not violate law, but citizens of these countries show practically no interest in Russia, head of the Russian Federal Migration Service Konstantin Romodanovsky said answering a question from a TASS correspondent. He noted that 182 Syrians have gone to Europe through Russia since the beginning of this year 
"The materials of those who make a request are considered, but I believe it is necessary to take into account the fact that historically European countries are more acceptable for immigrants from Syria than Russia in terms of the larger diaspora and greater integration," he said.
Romodanovsky noted that the migration service had analyzed an example cited by the media related to the crossing of the Russian border by Syrians who were moving to Norway. "All of them - 182 persons - stayed in Russia for a long time - for about 255 days each," he said. Nevertheless, according to Romodanovsky, they have no intention to settle down in Russia, they have greater interest in European countries, including northern European ones. He added that the Syrians who stayed in Russia did not violate local law - "they stayed in Russia with a legal status, crossed the border, and there are no complaints about this category of citizens."
Romodanovsky said that the current flows of refugees from Syria and Libya were unlikely to affect Russia, adding that "the situation was under control." --0--**
+
Lexis+Story+Since the beginning of the civil war in Syria, now in its fifth year, more than 4 million refugees have fled the country while nearly twice as many have become internally displaced.
Hundreds of thousands of these refugees -- and others fleeing threatened areas in the Middle East, Africa and elsewhere -- are on the move, taking perilous journeys by land and sea after setting their sights on a better future in Europe. The result has been the biggest refugee crisis the continent has experienced in decades.
According to the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, there are nearly 4.1 million registered refugees from Syria. Some countries have opened their doors, hearts and pocketbooks to varying degrees. Others have hoisted barriers to the migrant tide. 
Here is a look at how the refugee crisis has unfolded in some of the key countries in the region and beyond:
LEBANON has taken in 1.1 million registered refugees and others who are not registered. Government officials put the overall number at 1.5 million. With an estimated population of about 4.5 million, Lebanon has the highest per-capita number of Syrian refugees, accounting for about 1 in 4 people in the country. With half a million Palestinians remaining in refugee camps established six decades ago, the government has been reluctant to set up formal refugee camps for the Syrians.
JORDAN says it has taken in 1.4 million Syrians, although the UNHCR counts 629,266 registered refugees. Jordan prides itself on its hospitality toward these and other refugees, but the high numbers -- about 20% of the population, based on government figures -- have taxed the small kingdom, already struggling with strained resources such as energy and water.
TURKEY has taken in the most refugees of any country and is home to more than 1.9 million Syrians who have crossed the border. About a third live in government-run camps near the border whereas others have dispersed. According to rights organizations, the Syrians in Turkey do not enjoy full access to legal safeguards protecting refugees, but in recent years the UNHCR has been given more access to the refugee camps.
ISRAEL is the only country sharing a border with Syria that has not taken in any Syrian refugees. Israel has extended humanitarian aid and medical treatment, including in Israeli hospitals, to more than 1,000 people injured in the fighting in Syria in recent years but has said it will not take in refugees. Israel and Syria do not have diplomatic relations.
QATAR, the UNITED ARAB EMIRATES and SAUDI ARABIA are increasingly criticized by rights organizations, which say the wealthy Persian Gulf countries have not offered to take in even one Syrian refugee. The nations have contributed humanitarian aid, some generously.
GREECE does not share a border with Syria, but the relatively short sail from Turkey has made it a prime destination for hundreds of thousands of migrants from Syria and other countries. Nearly a quarter of a million refugees have landed on Greek shores this year after perilous sea journeys, overwhelming a number of islands where physical and administrative infrastructure are insufficient. Most aim to use Greece as a land bridge through the Balkans and into Northern Europe, but a small number have been given temporary housing in Athens.
ITALY is the second immediate destination of most Mediterranean migrant voyages and more than 110,000 refugees have arrived there this year. As with Greece, many opt to use the country as a bridge to wealthier, northern countries.
THE UNITED STATES has spent more than $4.1 billion since 2012 on what it calls the Syria Humanitarian Response, supporting food programs and refugee operations in Jordan and Lebanon. However, the U.S. has taken in only about 1,500 refugees from Syria, prompting criticism from rights organizations and others. U.S. officials say the country is looking for ways to improve its response to the crisis, and they cite lengthy vetting and screening processes intended to keep out terrorism operatives.
AUSTRALIA has come under fire for reports that its navy paid smugglers to turn back a boat with Asian migrants in May, and officials have acknowledged using "creative strategies" to check the flow of unwanted migrants. The country has firm, strictly enforced immigration policies, and it intercepts would-be migrants and asylum seekers at sea. However, Australia did take in 4,400 refugees from Syria and Iraq last year, and the government says it plans to increase that number.
GERMANY is the main destination for many hopefuls. From 2011 to this year, Germany received nearly 100,000 applications for asylum, but 100,000 more reached Germany last month alone as the crisis mushroomed. Europe's strongest economy is bracing for 800,000 asylum seekers this year and cautions that other European Union partners must shoulder the burden or the entire open-border policy of the European bloc could be in danger.
SWEDEN is another coveted destination. Among European countries, it has taken in the most people relative to the size of its population and last year alone admitted 80,000 refugees, more than a third of them from Syria. The Scandinavian country's welcoming policy, including near-automatic residency and government programs for integration, have made Sweden an attractive destination.
FRANCE said Monday that it would take in 24,000 refugees under a European Union-wide quota system that some member states are almost certain to reject.
BRITAIN said it would take in 20,000 Syrian refugees by the end of the current Parliament's term in 2020.
Other European nations have been considerably less eager to embrace the beleaguered foreigners, most of whom are Muslim. HUNGARY has begun erecting a border fence, and Prime Minister Viktor Orban has drawn criticism for comments about the need to preserve Europe's Christian character.
+
Lexis+Story+BIRMINGHAM and Midland MPs welcomed David Cameron's pledge to take in thousands of refugees from Syria - but some warned that the UK must also take military action.
Birmingham Erdington MP Jack Dromey (Lab) told the House of Commons: "Our country has a long and honourable tradition of asylum and we will warmly welcome those who come to our shores to Birmingham."
But Black Country MP James Morris (Cons, Halesowen) told the Commons that the UK must consider "more concerted military action across Iraq and Syria" in order to put an end to the crisis which has forced an estimated four million people to flee their homes. 
The Prime Minister said the UK would live up to its moral responsibility towards the people forced to flee by the forces of president Bashar Assad and the ISIL terror group.
Mr Cameron told MPs: "We are proposing that Britain should resettle up to 20,000 Syrian refugees over the rest of this Parliament.
"In doing so, we will continue to show the world that this country is a country of extraordinary compassion, always standing up for our values and helping those in need." But he came under fire from some critics who said the UK would be welcoming only 4,000 people a year - and making a smaller contribution than Germany, which has said it expects 800,000 refugees with asylum by the end of 2015.
Mr Cameron said sanctuary would be given to refugees who are currently in camps neighbouring Syria - rather than those who made the trip to Europe.
Mr Morris warned: "In order to solve this problem we do have to consider more concerted military action across Iraq and Syria working with our allies."
Meanwhile, Shrewsbury MP Daniel Kawczynski criticised fellow MPs who voted against military action in 2013, putting a halt to David Cameron's plans for air strikes in Syria at that point, saying that they had allowed ethnic cleansing to take place.
Birmingham City Council has said it will house refugees, saying last week: "We are keen to do whatever we can to help some of the world's most vulnerable people."
However, it has not confirmed how many refugees it might be able to take in.
Home secretary Theresa May and local government secretary Greg Clark are now set to liaise with local authorities across the country to discuss how they might be able to house refugees.
Labour leadership favourite Jeremy Corbyn said Britain should take in refugees from other countries who are currently living in camps in Calais and across Europe, as well as Syrians in the Middle East.
He said: "At the interior ministers' summit next Monday, will Britain now sign up to be part of a Europeanwide response to assist refugees from all parts of the world and ensure they have somewhere safe to go and Britain will play a much greater role than it does at the present time, including sorting the misery and desperation of people living in those camps in Calais and other places.
"They are human beings too who need some help and support."
¦Migrants walk along railroad tracks at the Serbian border with Hungary and (below) arriving at Lesbos in Greece after making the crossing from Turkey. Inset, Midlands MPs Jack Dromey (left) and James Morris and how the Mail has been reporting the unfolding crisis ¦ Migrants walk along railroad tracks at the Serbian border with Hungary and (below) arriving at Lesbos in Greece after making the crossing from Turkey. Inset, Midlands MPs Jack Dromey (left) and James Morris and how the Mail has been reporting the unfolding crisis
+
Lexis+Story+Text of commentary in English by official Chinese news agency Xinhua (New China News Agency)
Beijing, 8 September: The United States should take its responsibility in the disheartening refugee crisis in Europe as its controversial Middle East policies resulted in wars and chaos that displaced large numbers of people. 
A picture showing the tiny, lifeless body of a drowned Syrian refugee washed up on a Turkish beach has brought the European refugee crisis under the spotlight. However, the reality is way worse than what the public has seen from the picture.
Each week, hundreds of refugees who flee from Iraq, Syria and other war-torn Middle Eastern countries take on their dangerous journey across the Mediterranean, many of them not being able to reach the European shores alive.
Just more than a week ago, about 70 refugees were found dead in a truck abandoned on a motorway in Austria. Similar incidents happen frequently but have only drawn limited attention until the photo came up, grilling everyone's conscience.
Moreover, when people think that the refugees on their way to Europe or in Europe face tremendous difficulties, they should also keep in mind that the places the refugees have fled is exposed to even more danger and hardship.
And even though it has remained relatively "quiet" on this matter, the United States actually has an inescapable responsibility on what happens today in Europe and the Middle East.
The United States has made interventions, directly or indirectly, to overthrow Iraq's Saddam Hussein, Libya's Muammar Gaddafi and Egypt's Hosni Mubarak, among other ousted leaders in Middle East.
Savage wars have scourged Iraq, Syria, Yemen and other countries as terrorist attacks take place on a daily basis. Hundreds of thousands of innocent civilians have died in bloody conflicts, while millions have been forced to flee their hometown.
Wars and anarchy in the region have clearly pointed to the failure of the U.S. policies of the Middle East, a mistake that the only super power of the world is reluctant to correct.
Now leaders of the European Union are between a rock and a hard place as the public is urging for more aids for the refugees while the EU countries are having difficulties dealing the flooding of refugees. However, the United States has done nothing substantial to deal with the problem.
While Germany and Austria expect to receive 800,000 refugees and migrants this year, U.S. State Department spokesperson John Kirby said the United States plans to receive 1,500 refugees from Syria, which is far from enough considering the number of 4 million refugees in the Middle East country.
Moreover, the plight of Syria and other countries in the region cannot be solved by just providing sanctuary to the homeless. Where there is war, innocent civilians will suffer.
As a solution, peace and stability should be established in the region. But it cannot be done unless the United States shoulders its responsibility and corrects its mistakes.
Source: Xinhua news agency, Beijing, in English 1111gmt 08 Sep 15
+
Lexis+Story+But nobody needs the point-scoring of the compassionistas
We welcome Tony Abbott's announcement that Australia will take more Syrian refugees. The scale of the humanitarian crisis has been brought home by heartbreaking stories (such as the image of drowned three-year-old boy Aylan Kurdi) as well as by grim statistics (about nine million Syrians have fled their homes since civil war began in 2011). This is a crisis with no end in sight. As an affluent and peaceful nation with a long tradition of embracing refugees, Australia has an obligation to do what it can to help. It is, as the Prime Minister said, "the right thing" to do. Immigration Minister Peter Dutton has flown to Geneva for talks with the UN High Commissioner for Refugees, Antonio Guterres, on any further assistance that Australia may be able to offer. 
Australia's offer to take more Syrian refugees is an altruistic and deeply felt response to human tragedy. However, it's also true that the intake of refugees can bring benefits to the host country. The middle-class exodus from Syria is likely to include many useful future citizens, people able to fit in with Australia's pluralistic society. As with migrants in general, refugees tend to be young and highly motivated; they can be a transfusion of economic energy for an ageing society. None of this is at odds with a robust vetting process for would-be refugees. The first challenge is to establish identity; there are reports of asylum-seekers from other countries exchanging their papers for fake Syrian documents. Australia also must ensure there are careful security checks; we must take every possible step to ensure that we do not import extremists - for example, supporters of jihadist outfit Jabhat al-Nusra, or the al-Nusra Front.
Whatever the government does in response to Syria's plight, it will never be enough for the moral vanity crowd. On Twitter they compete against one another to nominate ever higher, arbitrary targets for resettlement; the higher the more righteous. Greens leader Richard Di Natale, for example, says Australia should take 20,000 Syrian refugees over and above our annual humanitarian intake. Mr Abbott's proposal is to accept more Syrians within the intake, which sits at 13,750. Not content with a difference in position Dr Di Natale yesterday said the Prime Minister was "devoid of any compassion and decency". This is strange logic. If GetUp! urged a refugee intake of 40,000, would that make Dr Di Natale's position morally bankrupt? Take the opposition; Bill Shorten says Australia should welcome 10,000 Syrian refugees; is that half as compassionate as the Greens' position? Of course, the compassionistas who deplore the Prime Minister's position are the same who assailed his border protection policy as not only impossible in practice but immoral in principle. Yet if the Abbott government had failed to stop the boats, the humanitarian intake would have been swamped - and there would not be room to accommodate more Syrians.
Another absurdity is that some self-appointed advocates of Syria's refugees are distinctly queasy about the military campaign to destroy Islamic State, the murderous entity that has inflicted so much misery on the civilians of Syria and Iraq. Yesterday Dr Di Natale did not welcome the prospect of Australia extending its airstrikes against Islamic State across the border and into Syria. Far from it; he said the government was "on the verge of making a humanitarian tragedy worse by dropping bombs on Syria". Australia's military has a reputation for taking great care in choosing targets and for aborting bombing raids if there is danger of harming civilians. What is certain is that millions of Syrians and Iraqis will have no possibility of a safe return home until Islamic State is destroyed.
Yet another odd compassionista argument is that Australia must take an above quota number of Syrian refugees to atone for our sins in helping rid Iraq of Saddam Hussein. But post-Saddam Iraq and Syria are different countries. And it is Syria's civil war - followed by Islamic State - that has brought misery and dislocation to its civilians.Twitter is easily distracted from horrors such as these and ever alert to serious infractions at home, such as the suggestion by a Fairfax Media columnist that Australia give priority to persecuted Christians among the Syrian refugees. "This is possibly the worst thing you have ever written," one Twitter critic said. "I don't even know where to start." That sums it up perfectly; Twitter groupthink means nobody has to engage with contrary opinions or produce telling arguments. In fact, the suggestion of a pro-Christian bias in refugee selection is not so ludicrous at all. The ancient Christian communities of the Middle East have been under tremendous pressure for decades now; persecution by Islamic State is just the latest, most violent instance of this. Is it really so surprising that a majority Christian country such as Australia might consider a refugee policy giving priority to Christian and other minority religions among the Syrian exodus?
+
Lexis+Story+THE desire of people across Wales and the UK to give desperate refugees sanctuary demonstrates the strength of the public's compassion.
Harrowing images of families in peril have forced us to imagine how we would cope if we had to gather our children and a few belongings and flee our homes. This has inspired solidarity with asylum seekers who are prepared to risk everything to find safety and the hope of a better future. 
The crisis has also forced the country to face up to its responsibilities. The UK, and Wales, enjoys peace and prosperity which contrasts starkly with the mayhem, poverty, and extremism which has ravaged entire regions bordering Europe.
Some people are fleeing direct threats to their lives. Others are seeking to escape abject destitution and secure their children the chance of an education.
David Cameron has resolved that the best way forward is for the UK to take up to 20,000 refugees by the time of the 2020 election. People will come from "camps and elsewhere in Turkey, Jordan and Lebanon" because this "provides refugees with a more direct and safe route to the UK, rather than risking the hazardous journey to Europe".
This approach differs from that of EU countries which have opened their borders to many thousands of people who have entered Europe. Welsh opposition politicians yesterday made it clear they regarded the UK Government's approach as slow and stingy.
The complaints riled the PM, who argues Britain is leading the way in supporting refugees in the countries surrounding Syria, and he wants other states to play a fuller role in providing assistance. There is important work to be done to help both the refugees who risk death trying to reach countries such as Germany and those who face a deeply uncertain future who refugee camps. The international community has failed to stump up the cash the UNHCR claims is needed, and the consequences of failing to provide traumatised and angry young people with education and employment opportunities could pose a real threat to the future stability of the region.
It is also essential that the world does not allow the hope to perish that refugees will one day be able to return to their homes in Syria. The country has been devastated by a dictator and his henchmen on one side and hordes of barbaric extremists on the other but we cannot accept that Syria's only destiny is as a rogue state.
The civil war must be brought to an end; the slaughter cannot be allowed to continue. Similarly, it is intolerable to contemplate the socalled Islamic State securing longterm control of this ancient country.
Refugees have fled forces of horror but Europe's future will be distorted if extremists are allowed to cement their positions in countries surrounding the continent's borders. Whether in the Middle East or North Africa, terrorist armies will threaten the security of us all.
Wales is ready to welcome refugees but we should also offer them solidarity against their foes.
+
Lexis+Story+A real struggle with Coalition's approach to the people of Syria A plea has been made to help refugees.Photo: Getty Images As an Australia-born daughter of post World War II Polish refugees, I am struggling with the Federal Liberal Coalition government's approach to the people of Syria. Next week they will probably try and convince us that by bombing Syria we are helping the Syrian people to live safely. The Labor opposition might even support this approach.
Yet where is the plan to provide asylum to Syrian asylum seekers stranded in refugee camps in the Middle East and pouring into Europe? 
Surely they deserve our support?
We recognise that their country is at war and we are willing to provide military "assistance" but how can this be even considered without also a clear and genuine commitment to provide shelter to the innocent victims of war? For how much longer will the Australian public continue to tolerate Prime Minster Abbott's cruel and heartless approach to asylum seekers and refugees. Not in my name.
Joanna Zubrzycki, Yarralumla It is very distressing indeed to see the plight of the thousands of Syrian refugees. It is equally distressing to hear the response from the Federal Government that they will not increase the overall intake of refugees to assist these homeless people.
It beggars belief that at the same time the Prime Minister has this callous response to the Syrian situation that he is going to bomb their homeland.
My hunch is the Australian people would love to open our doors and give a welcoming hand. We helped out the Kosovo people and we should do the same here.
Penny Moyes, Hughes Whenever there is a natural disaster, Australia usually responds quickly with offers of food, clothing, emergency shelter and money. The refugee disaster we are now witnessing in Europe is possibly greater in scale and suffering than any natural disaster the world has seen. So what is Australia doing to alleviate the suffering?
First, we have cut foreign aid to Africa by a massive 70 per cent and by lesser amounts to other regions, thereby increasing the desperation of people already living in poverty and encouraging even more people to seek a better life elsewhere.
Second, we are planning to increase our bombing in Syria in an exercise which will add to the death and suffering while our Minister for Defence admits that he has no idea of, and doesn't seem to care, what will happen to that country and its neighbours even if IS is defeated.
And third, our Prime Minister is still arguing that if the European nations had turned back the boats the death and suffering could have been avoided.
Australia has magnanimously agreed to take some Syrian refugees, but that is at the expense of refugees from other nations. Australia's attitude seems to be that as long as the refugees don't come near us we can ignore them. Why are our leaders so lacking in compassion in the face of this human tragedy?
Charles Body, Kaleen Attack the cause Coalition MP Craig Laundry's concern for the plight of refugees is understandable.
However, his solution to increase Australia's intake will have little impact on the global problem. In fact, if this solution is adopted by a number of countries it would result in accelerating the problem; the only long term solution is to attack the cause, not the effect.
Sadly, while some countries are attempting to attack the cause the result is creating a "them and us" situation leading to a further acceleration of the problem. The United Nations must take up the challenge of addressing the causes.
Ed Dobson, Hughes Motivation mystery Why on earth would Australia participate in Syria's civil war through air raids? Because we started the war? Because of a strategic alliance with Syria?
Because we know exactly who to drop bombs on? Because Syria is a close, valued neighbour?
Because we have fomented strife between the Sunni and (Shia) Alawite sects in Syria?
Because we have such deep admiration for the Assad regime?
Because Australia is a Sunni (or Shia) state with a vital concern about which of these sects wins?
Because we are hawks who can't bear not being involved in a war, any war, somewhere?
I think we all know the answers to these questions, and it isn't "yes".
M. Aken, Holder Puzzled by reaction I was puzzled by the reaction to Tony Abbott's comments about the atrocities perpetrated by Islamic State ("Jewish backlash after Tony Abbott says Islamic State terrorists are worse than the Nazis", canberratimes.com.au, September 3).
The atrocities committed by the Islamist Group is vividly displayed on our television screens in our home regularly.
The results of such atrocities again are vividly displayed through the masses of people escaping from the regions of Iraq, Syria and Turkey trying to flee to Europe. I can't but be puzzled that the reference to Nazi atrocities is found to be inappropriate.
Is there a degree of atrocities to be measured on? Can one attempt to measure the suffering of the six million Jewish victims, the 20 million Russians or the other 50 or so million of Europeans, Americans, Australians, Asians and Africans who suffered from one and the same Nazi entity?
On the other hand, could one be forgiven to take the comments as a rebuttal of IS criticism by the Prime Minister?
Why would that be? Is there an underground link between IS and a particular grouping based in the Middle East that must be protected?
Henri Clementine, Holt Badge of honour I note Tony Abbott's comment that the Islamic State is worse than the Nazis. Numerical counts aside, it is revealing that a government that conceals its nefarious activities from the public is more admirable than one that tries to conceal them.
No wonder Tony wants doctors or other workers gagged from commenting on what is going on in detention centres.
Experience has taught me to expect cowardice to be a badge of honour in the Liberal and National Party coalition governments.
I suppose at least Tony has owned up to it.
Ralph Toivonen, Monash
+
Lexis+Story+The central issues of a homeland for Palestinians and peace with -Israel have been "marginalised" by the war and chaos in the Middle East, former Palestinian prime minister Salam Fayyad has warned during his first visit to Australia.
Dr Fayyad is an important figure in the Palestinian movement, touted as a possible successor to ageing Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas. 
He will today meet Foreign Minister Julie Bishop and her -opposition counterpart, Labor deputy leader Tanya Plibersek, after the party's national conference in July paved the way for a -future ALP government to recognise a Palestinian state.
He will also address the -National Press Club in Canberra.
Dr Fayyad would not say whether he would raise diplo-matic recognition of Palestine with Ms Bishop and, in guarded comments to The Australian, steered clear of speculation over Mr Abbas's future, unleashed by moves to quit his post with the Palestinian Liberation Organisation and shake up its executive committee. Observers of Palestinian politics are divided over whether this is a ploy to position a successor to Mr Abbas or, more likely, that the 80-year-old leader is bringing in supporters to shore up his position as boss of the PA.
Mr Abbas at the weekend called for the UN to put pressure on Israel to allow Palestinian refugees uprooted from camps and settlements in Syria to seek sanctuary in the occupied West Bank territories and Gaza.
Dr Fayyad said it was "natural" for the Palestinian leadership to try to help, as people who had been made homeless by wars with Israel dating back to 1948 had been re-traumatised in Syria when forced to flee.
"We are all for a concerted -effort internationally," he said. But at a political level, he was concerned that the war between Israel and the Islamist Palestinian faction Hamas in Gaza last year coupled with the crisis in Syria and the rise there and in Iraq of Islamic State had marginalised the Palestinians' struggle for a homeland.
"Greater attention needs to be paid to our issue â[#x20ac]¦ I believe leaving our cause unattended, as has been the case largely over the past year, is a mistake," Dr Fayyad said.
He renewed his call for Hamas, which controls Gaza, and the militant Islamic Jihad group to be brought into the fold of the PLO even though neither has -renounced violence or recognised Israel.
"Yes, there are significant political differences there, but I think a way must be found to include them in the framework â[#x20ac]¦ without the PLO having to abrogate or move away from what has been decided," Dr Fayyad said, referring to the PLO's position on -accepting Israel's right to exist and its disavowal of attacks against the Jewish state. "I think that is -possible." Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has rejected calls for his country to take in refugees from Syria, highlighting the inaction of Middle East states not -directly impacted by the deepening humanitarian crisis.
While countries with contiguous borders with Syria - Turkey, Lebanon, Jordan and Iraq - have taken in millions of refugees, Mr Netanyahu insisted Israel did not have the capacity to open its doors.
"Israel is not indifferent to the human tragedy of the refugees from Syria and Africa," the Prime Minister said.
"We have already devotedly cared for approximately 1000 wounded people from the fighting in Syria and we have helped them to rehabilitate their lives." But Israel was a small country lacking the "demographic and geographic depth" to offer sanctuary to refugees.
"Therefore, we must control our borders against both illegal migrants and terrorism," Mr Netanyahu said in Jerusalem.
His comments came after the leader of Israel's opposition -Labour Party, Isaac Herzog, said the country should "carry out a process of absorbing refugees from Syria in addition to humanitarian efforts already being made".
"Jews cannot sit still while hundreds of thousands of refugees are looking for a safe asylum," Mr Herzog said.
Turkey is housing an estimated two million refugees while Lebanon - with a resident population of just four million people - has accepted 1.3 million displaced Syrians. Hundreds of thousands are living with relatives or in crowded camps in Jordan.The decision by Germany and Austria to accept Syrian refugees who walked to the borders of the EU has put the spotlight on oil-rich Arab countries such as Saudi Arabia, Kuwait and the United Arab Emirates to do more than dispense cash.
+
Lexis+Story+The central issues of a homeland for Palestinians and peace with -Israel have been "marginalised" by the war and chaos in the Middle East, former Palestinian prime minister Salam Fayyad has warned during his first visit to Australia.
Dr Fayyad is an important figure in the Palestinian movement, touted as a possible successor to ageing Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas. 
He will today meet Foreign Minister Julie Bishop and her -opposition counterpart, Labor deputy leader Tanya Plibersek, after the party's national conference in July paved the way for a -future ALP government to recognise a Palestinian state.
He will also address the -National Press Club in Canberra.
Dr Fayyad would not say whether he would raise diplo-matic recognition of Palestine with Ms Bishop and, in guarded comments to The Australian, steered clear of speculation over Mr Abbas's future, unleashed by moves to quit his post with the Palestinian Liberation Organisation and shake up its executive committee. Observers of Palestinian politics are divided over whether this is a ploy to position a successor to Mr Abbas or, more likely, that the 80-year-old leader is bringing in supporters to shore up his position as boss of the PA.
Mr Abbas at the weekend called for the UN to put pressure on Israel to allow Palestinian refugees uprooted from camps and settlements in Syria to seek sanctuary in the occupied West Bank territories and Gaza.
Dr Fayyad said it was "natural" for the Palestinian leadership to try to help, as people who had been made homeless by wars with Israel dating back to 1948 had been re-traumatised in Syria when forced to flee.
"We are all for a concerted -effort internationally," he said. But at a political level, he was concerned that the war between Israel and the Islamist Palestinian faction Hamas in Gaza last year coupled with the crisis in Syria and the rise there and in Iraq of Islamic State had marginalised the Palestinians' struggle for a homeland.
"Greater attention needs to be paid to our issue â[#x20ac]¦ I believe leaving our cause unattended, as has been the case largely over the past year, is a mistake," Dr Fayyad said.
He renewed his call for Hamas, which controls Gaza, and the militant Islamic Jihad group to be brought into the fold of the PLO even though neither has -renounced violence or recognised Israel.
"Yes, there are significant political differences there, but I think a way must be found to include them in the framework â[#x20ac]¦ without the PLO having to abrogate or move away from what has been decided," Dr Fayyad said, referring to the PLO's position on -accepting Israel's right to exist and its disavowal of attacks against the Jewish state. "I think that is -possible." Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has rejected calls for his country to take in refugees from Syria, highlighting the inaction of Middle East states not -directly impacted by the deepening humanitarian crisis.
While countries with contiguous borders with Syria - Turkey, Lebanon, Jordan and Iraq - have taken in millions of refugees, Mr Netanyahu insisted Israel did not have the capacity to open its doors.
"Israel is not indifferent to the human tragedy of the refugees from Syria and Africa," the Prime Minister said.
"We have already devotedly cared for approximately 1000 wounded people from the fighting in Syria and we have helped them to rehabilitate their lives." But Israel was a small country lacking the "demographic and geographic depth" to offer sanctuary to refugees.
"Therefore, we must control our borders against both illegal migrants and terrorism," Mr Netanyahu said in Jerusalem.
His comments came after the leader of Israel's opposition -Labour Party, Isaac Herzog, said the country should "carry out a process of absorbing refugees from Syria in addition to humanitarian efforts already being made".
"Jews cannot sit still while hundreds of thousands of refugees are looking for a safe asylum," Mr Herzog said.
Turkey is housing an estimated two million refugees while Lebanon - with a resident population of just four million people - has accepted 1.3 million displaced Syrians. Hundreds of thousands are living with relatives or in crowded camps in Jordan.The decision by Germany and Austria to accept Syrian refugees who walked to the borders of the EU has put the spotlight on oil-rich Arab countries such as Saudi Arabia, Kuwait and the United Arab Emirates to do more than dispense cash.
+
Lexis+Story+ABSTRACT
Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu also said that plans to construct a fence along Israel's eastern border with Jordan would go ahead. FULL TEXT
Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has rejected calls from opposition politicians for Israel to accept refugees from Syria, saying that Israel was ''a very small country that lacks demographic and geographic depth.'' He also said that plans to construct a fence along the eastern border with Jordan would go ahead.
The Israeli news media has been dominated in recent days by the dramatic reports and images of the migrant crisis enveloping Europe, and particularly the plight of those fleeing the civil war in Syria. 
Israel has found itself in a somewhat paradoxical situation: Syria is an immediate neighbor, as are Lebanon and Jordan, countries that have taken in huge numbers of Syrians and share borders with Israel.
Yet Israel has remained largely isolated and off the migrants' path, since Syria and Israel are themselves technically in a state of war.
Isaac Herzog, the leader of the center-left Labor Party and head of the opposition, stirred a heated national debate over the issue after he said on Saturday that ''Jews cannot remain indifferent when hundreds of thousands of refugees are seeking safe harbor.'' He added, ''Our people experienced firsthand the silence of the world,'' alluding to the Holocaust, ''and cannot be indifferent in the face of the rampant murders and massacres taking place in Syria.''
Israel, a state of about eight million people that was largely founded by refugees, has long been torn between the humanitarian demands of taking in non-Jews in need and its fears about maintaining its Jewish character and security in a hostile and increasingly chaotic region. It is still grappling with the presence of tens of thousands of African migrants and asylum seekers who surreptitiously crossed the border from Egypt in recent years.
The issue of Arab asylum seekers is further complicated by the unresolved and politically loaded question of the fate of the Palestinian refugees who fled or were expelled during the war over Israel's creation in 1948 and their millions of descendants who demand the right of return to their former homes. The Palestinian refugee issue has become one of the most intractable of the decades-long Israeli-Palestinian conflict.
President Mahmoud Abbas of the Palestinian Authority on Saturday instructed the Palestinian ambassador to the United Nations to act to bring Palestinian refugees now fleeing the war in Syria to the Israeli-occupied West Bank.
The presidency has asked the United Nations, the European Union and other players to press Israel to allow Palestinian refugees in, according to Wafa, the official Palestinian news agency. The Palestinian Authority exercises limited self-rule in some areas of the West Bank, but Israel controls the borders and entry points to the territory.
In broadcast remarks at the start of the weekly cabinet meeting on Sunday, Mr. Netanyahu said, ''Israel is not indifferent to the human tragedy of the refugees from Syria and Africa. We have already devotedly cared for approximately 1,000 wounded people from the fighting in Syria, and we have helped them to rehabilitate their lives.''
But he added, ''We must control our borders, against both illegal migrants and terrorism.''
Other members of the opposition had joined Mr. Herzog's call to take in refugees, including Zehava Galon, the leader of the left-wing Meretz party, and Elazar Stern, a legislator from the centrist Yesh Atid party. Mr. Stern invoked a gesture made by Menachem Begin, the former Likud Party leader, who, as prime minister in the late 1970s, welcomed several hundred Vietnamese boat people to Israel and granted them Israeli citizenship.
Ministers from Mr. Netanyahu's conservative Likud Party and some coalition partners backed Mr. Netanyahu's arguments against opening Israel's gates to even a limited number of refugees, as did the leader of Yesh Atid, Yair Lapid.
Yisrael Katz, a Likud minister, suggested that Mr. Herzog should ''at least'' offer to host the refugees in his own home, following the example of the prime minister of Finland. ''But in principle I think this is a strange, mistaken proposal,'' he said of Mr. Herzog's call. ''Israel must not get involved in what is happening is Syria. We are not a European country. We are too close.''
The African migrants and asylum seekers already in Israel are in a kind of legal limbo. Most are from Sudan and Eritrea, and are afforded blanket protection from deportation in line with international conventions. But Israel has granted only a very few of those who have applied official status as refugees, and their future remains uncertain.
Israel has mostly halted the influx of Africans across the border from Egypt over the last couple of years, in large part by completing construction of a 150-mile, 16-foot-tall steel border fence stretching from the southern resort town of Eilat to Gaza.
Having also built security fences on its frontiers with Lebanon and Syria, through parts of the occupied West Bank and along the border with Gaza, Israel now says it is moving ahead with a previously announced plan to build a fence along the border with Jordan. Although Jordan and Israel have signed a peace treaty and that border has long been calm, Israel fears that it could become a vulnerable entry point for illegal migration and hostile infiltrations.
Mr. Netanyahu said Israel would start by building the fence along a roughly 18-mile stretch from Eilat to Timna, where an airport is under construction.
+
Lexis+Story+China Daily
Asia News Network
Beijing
The picture of the drowned three-year-old Syrian boy Aylan Kurdi lying on a Turkish beach last Wednesday drew worldwide attention to the massive refugee crisis engulfing Europe and the ongoing turbulence in North Africa and West Asia. 
The heartrending scene should never have happened. Yet his death is just the tip of the iceberg when it comes to the humanitarian crisis resulting from armed conflicts and social unrest in countries such as Syria, Libya and Iraq.
According to United Nations' estimates, to date more than 300,000 refugees and migrants have ventured across the Mediterranean to Europe this year, with some 2,500 people perishing on the way.
The rising number of refugee deaths and the frequent clashes between refugees and police in those countries at the forefront of the refugee influx, show European countries were totally unprepared for this crisis.
And already mired in the Greek debt crisis, European countries have been slow to show compassion, even as more and more refugees from the Middle East arrive on their doorsteps after risking their lives to voyage across the sea.
Some Europeans seem to have forgotten their humanitarian and human rights ideals; sealing their borders in disregard of the pleas of the refugees, or else quarrelling with each another about whether to adopt "quotas" for the number of refugees they will accept.
After little Aylan's death, Germany and Austria have taken lead in accepting refugees stranded on the Hungarian border, a move that should temporarily ease the tensions. However, a long-term solution is still needed to address what is perceived as the biggest flow of refugees in Europe since World War II.
In the final analysis, the ongoing migrant crisis is the bitter fruit of the US-led West's interventionist policy in the Middle East.
According to Eurostat, the statistics office of the European Union, Syria was the source for the largest number of Europe-bound refugees in both 2013 and 2014. And in the first six months of this year, it continues to top the list.
The Middle East country has been mired in a full-blown civil war for nearly five years as a result of Western intervention.
Obviously, any solution to Europe's refugee crisis that fails to deal with its root cause will be inadequate. Western countries, the United States in particular, should shoulder their due responsibilities in both preventing the humanitarian disaster from worsening and restoring peace and stability in the Middle East.
+
Lexis+Story+China Daily
Asia News Network
Beijing
The picture of the drowned three-year-old Syrian boy Aylan Kurdi lying on a Turkish beach last Wednesday drew worldwide attention to the massive refugee crisis engulfing Europe and the ongoing turbulence in North Africa and West Asia. 
The heartrending scene should never have happened. Yet his death is just the tip of the iceberg when it comes to the humanitarian crisis resulting from armed conflicts and social unrest in countries such as Syria, Libya and Iraq.
According to United Nations' estimates, to date more than 300,000 refugees and migrants have ventured across the Mediterranean to Europe this year, with some 2,500 people perishing on the way.
The rising number of refugee deaths and the frequent clashes between refugees and police in those countries at the forefront of the refugee influx, show European countries were totally unprepared for this crisis.
And already mired in the Greek debt crisis, European countries have been slow to show compassion, even as more and more refugees from the Middle East arrive on their doorsteps after risking their lives to voyage across the sea.
Some Europeans seem to have forgotten their humanitarian and human rights ideals; sealing their borders in disregard of the pleas of the refugees, or else quarrelling with each another about whether to adopt "quotas" for the number of refugees they will accept.
After little Aylan's death, Germany and Austria have taken lead in accepting refugees stranded on the Hungarian border, a move that should temporarily ease the tensions. However, a long-term solution is still needed to address what is perceived as the biggest flow of refugees in Europe since World War II.
In the final analysis, the ongoing migrant crisis is the bitter fruit of the US-led West's interventionist policy in the Middle East.
According to Eurostat, the statistics office of the European Union, Syria was the source for the largest number of Europe-bound refugees in both 2013 and 2014. And in the first six months of this year, it continues to top the list.
The Middle East country has been mired in a full-blown civil war for nearly five years as a result of Western intervention.
Obviously, any solution to Europe's refugee crisis that fails to deal with its root cause will be inadequate. Western countries, the United States in particular, should shoulder their due responsibilities in both preventing the humanitarian disaster from worsening and restoring peace and stability in the Middle East.
+
Lexis+Story+With support for Syrian refugees galvanized in recent days, countries spent the weekend either stepping up their refugee quotas - or explicitly refusing to do so.
Canada The Conservative government has vowed to accept 20,000 Syrian refugees over the next four years, although the NDP has said it will settle 36,000 in the same time period if it wins government in October. The Liberals pledged to accept 25,000 in the next four months. 
Quebec Quebec - which runs an immigration system separate from the rest of Canada - has promised to bring in 3,650 Syrian refugees by the end of 2015.
Germany Seventy years after it caused Europe's last greatest refugee crisis, Germany has earmarked more than $7 billion to deal with an expected 800,000 migrants entering its borders from Syria, Iraq and Eritrea.
France President François Hollande announced Monday that his country would take in 24,000 asylum seekers over two years.
Greece With 230,000 refugees having arrived on its eastern islands, Greece says it has requested emergency European Union assistance to deal with the influx.
United Kingdom In a sharp turnaround from his policy of simply providing funding to Middle Eastern refugee camps, Prime Minister David Cameron has vowed to take in 20,000 Syrian refugees over the next five years.
United States The U.S. has only accepted 1,554 Syrian refugees since fighting broke out in 2011. The State Department has hinted that 6,500 more may be accepted by the end of 2018, but no concrete plans have been outlined.
Jordan Jordan remains home to more than 630,000 UN-registered refugees who have streamed over the country's border with Syria.
Australia Prime Minister Tony Abbott said Syrians would get a greater share of the country's annual intake of 13,750 new immigrants, but that the overall quota wouldn't be raised.
New Zealand Spurred on by public pressure, New Zealand has announced plans to bring in 750 refugees over three years, well above the 150 the country had originally planned to accept.
Is rael Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said Israel would not be accepting Syrian refugees, explaining that they are a "small country, a very small country, that lacks demographic and geographic depth."
Ic eland After the Icelandic government announced it would only accept 50 refugees over two years, a campaign arose to pressure authorities to accept more.
The Gulf States None of the Middle East's richest states (Saudi Arabia, Qatar, Bahrain, Kuwait, Oman and the United Arab Emirates) have outlined a specific policy for bringing in Syrian refugees, and the number admitted is said to be almost zero. !@COPYRIGHT=© 2015 Postmedia Network Inc. All rights reserved.
+
Lexis+Story+It seems another age, but during the first eight months of Syria's civil war, only 20,000 refugees fled Bashar al-Assad's domain. By a cruel irony, that is exactly the number Britain alone is now preparing to accept.
The raw figures betray how the flow from Syria has become a tidal wave. At the end of 2012, there were 400,000 refugees; one year later, 1.5 million; by December 2014, the total reached 3 million; today, there are 4 million refugees in neighbouring states - and 6.5 million within Syria itself. 
Such is the wreckage created by Assad's struggle to subdue his people - and the fanaticism represented by the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (Isil). Given that so many of Syria's 20 million people have been driven from their homes, who can be surprised that thousands are heading for Europe? This was surely the most predictable refugee crisis in modern times.
Now that the tragedy is upon us, two stark lessons should be drawn. The first is that leaving events in Syria to take their course - which was, in effect, the choice made by those who doggedly opposed any form of armed intervention - amounted to a moral failure, with baleful consequences.
We have it on the authority of Nicola Sturgeon, the SNP leader, that Syria needs a "long-term political and diplomatic sustainable solution". Perhaps she missed the Arab League peace plan, proposed within months of the outbreak of war in 2011, only to fall foul of Russian and Chinese vetoes at the United Nations Security Council.
Ms Sturgeon might also have overlooked the Kofi Annan peace plan of 2012, also blocked by Russia and China. Then there was the Annan Two peace plan, which Assad simply ignored, while Russia supplied him with weapons and Iran sent Hizbollah fighters to keep him in power.
In retrospect, there was only one course of action that might just have averted today's tragedy - and done so at a time when Isil barely existed and Syria had produced fewer than 20,000 refugees. If the Western powers had told Assad to accept the Arab League peace plan in 2011 or risk an intervention that would have guaranteed his downfall, then Ms Sturgeon's "political and diplomatic" solution might have stood a chance.
But she did not urge this at the time; instead, she would have marched in the streets to prevent it from happening. Rather than accept the cold reality that diplomacy only works if supported by a willingness to use force, Britain's "anti-war" campaigners now urge Britain to accept more refugees fleeing a catastrophe our inaction helped worsen.
This brings us to the second lesson: pay attention to the countries that have been forced to live with Syria's agony from the very beginning.
Almost unnoticed by the Western world, one neighbouring state, Jordan, has managed to stem the flow over the border. In the course of 2013, the number of Syrian refugees in Jordan jumped from 120,000 to 570,000. Since then, the total has stabilised at about 600,000.
How has this happened? Aid agencies attribute the reduction to far tougher border controls - and that is certainly a big part of the explanation. But it's not the whole story; the number of Syrians entering Jordan illegally, avoiding the established border crossings, is also believed to have fallen.
The reason is that Jordan has armed and supplied a new rebel coalition that now controls a de facto buffer zone in southern Syria. Here, large numbers of refugees have gathered. Assad's forces have tried - and failed - to recapture this territory, proving the fighting ability of the insurgents. Crucially, Isil has not yet been able to penetrate this region.
In Syria, this is what counts as success: a buffer zone held by non-Isil insurgents, where refugees can find relative safety without fleeing their country, let alone risking the journey to Europe. With minimal outside help, Jordan has quietly brought this about in southern Syria.
If this approach could be replicated in northern Syria then the refugee crisis might become manageable. That will be far harder, mainly because Turkey has chosen to back the most dangerous Islamists while pounding the Kurdish guerrillas in Syria. But, at this desperate moment, there is no other remedy that might help.
COMMENT on David Blair's view at www.telegraph.co.uk/ comment or FOLLOW him on Twitter @davidblairdt
+
Lexis+Story+It seems another age, but during the first eight months of Syria's civil war, only 20,000 refugees fled Bashar al-Assad's domain. By a cruel irony, that is exactly the number Britain alone is now preparing to accept.
The raw figures betray how the flow from Syria has become a tidal wave. At the end of 2012, there were 400,000 refugees; one year later, 1.5 million; by December 2014, the total reached 3 million; today, there are 4 million refugees in neighbouring states - and 6.5 million within Syria itself. 
Such is the wreckage created by Assad's struggle to subdue his people - and the fanaticism represented by the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (Isil). Given that so many of Syria's 20 million people have been driven from their homes, who can be surprised that thousands are heading for Europe? This was surely the most predictable refugee crisis in modern time.
Now that the tragedy is upon us, two stark lessons should be drawn. The first is that leaving events in Syria to take their course - which was, in effect, the choice made by those who doggedly opposed any form of armed intervention - amounted to a moral failure, with baleful consequences.
We have it on the authority of Nicola Sturgeon, the SNP leader, that Syria needs a "long-term political and diplomatic sustainable solution". Perhaps she missed the Arab League peace plan, proposed within months of the outbreak of war in 2011, only to fall foul of Russian and Chinese vetoes at the United Nations Security Council.
Ms Sturgeon might also have overlooked the Kofi Annan peace plan of 2012, also blocked by Russia and China. Then there was the Annan Two peace plan, which Assad simply ignored, while Russia supplied him with weapons and Iran sent Hizbollah fighters to keep him in power.
In retrospect, there was only one course of action that might just have averted today's tragedy - and done so at a time when Isil barely existed and Syria had produced fewer than 20,000 refugees. If the Western powers had told Assad to accept the Arab League peace plan in 2011 or risk an intervention that would have guaranteed his downfall, then Ms Sturgeon's "political and diplomatic" solution might have stood a chance.
But she did not urge this at the time; instead, she would have marched in the streets to prevent it from happening. Rather than accept the cold reality that diplomacy only works if supported by a willingness to use force, Britain's "anti-war" campaigners now urge Britain to accept more refugees fleeing a catastrophe our inaction helped worsen.
This brings us to the second lesson: pay attention to the countries that have been forced to live with Syria's agony from the very beginning.
Almost unnoticed by the Western world, one neighbouring state, Jordan, has managed to stem the flow over the border. In the course of 2013, the number of Syrian refugees in Jordan jumped from 120,000 to 570,000. Since then, the total has stabilised at about 600,000.
How has this happened? Aid agencies attribute the reduction to far tougher border controls - and that is certainly a big part of the explanation. But it's not the whole story; the number of Syrians entering Jordan illegally, avoiding the established border crossings, is also believed to have fallen.
The reason is that Jordan has armed and supplied a new rebel coalition that now controls a de facto buffer zone in southern Syria. Here, large numbers of refugees have gathered. Assad's forces have tried - and failed - to recapture this territory, proving the fighting ability of the insurgents. Crucially, Isil has not yet been able to penetrate this region.
In Syria, this is what counts as success: a buffer zone held by non-Isil insurgents, where refugees can find relative safety without fleeing their country, let alone risking the journey to Europe. With minimal outside help, Jordan has quietly brought this about in southern Syria.
If this approach could be replicated in northern Syria then the refugee crisis might become manageable. That will be far harder, mainly because Turkey has chosen to back the most dangerous Islamists while pounding the Kurdish guerrillas in Syria. But, at this desperate moment, there is no other remedy that might help.
COMMENT on David Blair's view at www.telegraph.co.uk/ comment or FOLLOW him on Twitter @davidblairdt
+
Lexis+Story+It seems another age, but during the first eight months of Syria's civil war, only 20,000 refugees fled Bashar al-Assad's domain. By a cruel irony,  that is exactly the number Britain alone is now preparing to accept . 
The raw figures betray how the flow from Syria has become a tidal wave. At the end of 2012, there were 400,000 refugees; one year later, 1.5 million; by December 2014, the total had reached 3 million; today, there are 4 million refugees in neighbouring states - and 6.5 million within Syria itself.  
Such is the wreckage created by Assad's struggle to subdue his people - and the fanaticism represented by the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (Isil). Given that most of Syria's 20 million people have now been driven from their homes, who can be surprised that thousands are heading for Europe? This was surely the most predictable refugee crisis in modern time. 
Now that the tragedy is upon us, two stark lessons should be drawn. The first is that leaving events in Syria to take their course - which was, in effect, the choice made by those who doggedly opposed any form of armed intervention - amounted to a moral failure, with baleful consequences. 
We have it on the authority of Nicola Sturgeon, the SNP leader, that Syria needs a "long term political and diplomatic sustainable solution". Perhaps she missed the Arab League peace plan, proposed within months of the outbreak of war in 2011, only to fall foul of Russian and Chinese vetoes at the United Nations Security Council. 
Ms Sturgeon might also have overlooked the Kofi Annan peace plan of 2012, also blocked by Russia and China at the UN. Then there was the Annan Two peace plan, which Assad simply ignored, while Russia supplied him with weapons and Iran sent Hizbollah fighters to keep him in power. 
In retrospect, there was only one course of action that might just have averted today's tragedy - and done so at a time when Isil barely existed and Syria had produced fewer than 20,000 refugees. If the Western powers had told Assad to accept the Arab League peace plan in 2011 or risk an intervention that would have guaranteed his downfall, then Ms Sturgeon's "political and diplomatic" solution might have stood a chance. 
But she did not urge this at the time; instead, she would have marched in the streets to prevent it from happening. Rather than accept the unavoidable reality that diplomacy only works if backed by a willingness to use force, our so-called  "anti-war" campaigners  now urge Britain to accept more refugees from very catastrophe which our inaction helped to worsen. 
This bring us to the second lesson: pay attention to the countries which have been forced to live with Syria's agony from the very beginning. 
Almost unnoticed by the Western world, one neighbouring state, Jordan, has managed to stem the flow over the border. During the course of 2013, the number of Syrian refugees in Jordan jumped from 120,000 to 570,000. Since then, the total has stabilised at about 600,000. 
How has this happened? Aid agencies attribute the reduction to far tougher border controls - and that is certainly a big part of the explanation. But it's not the whole story: the number of Syrians entering Jordan illegally, avoiding the established border crossings, is also believed to have fallen. 
The reason is that Jordan has armed and supplied a new rebel coalition which now controls a de facto buffer zone in the provinces of Deraa and Suwayda in southern Syria. Here, large numbers of refugees have gathered. Assad's forces have tried - and failed - to recapture this territory, proving the fighting ability of the insurgents. Crucially, Isil has not yet been able to penetrate this region. 
In Syria, this is what counts as success: a buffer zone held by non-Isil insurgents, where refugees can find relative safety without fleeing their country, let alone risking the journey to Europe. With minimal outside help, Jordan has quietly brought this about in southern Syria. 
If this approach could be replicated in northern Syria then the refugee crisis might become manageable. That will be far harder, mainly because Turkey has chosen to back the most dangerous Islamists while pounding the Kurdish guerrillas in Syria. But, at this desperate moment, there is no other remedy that might help. 
+
Lexis+Story+It seems another age, but during the first eight months of Syria's civil war, only 20,000 refugees fled Bashar al-Assad's domain. By a cruel irony,  that is exactly the number Britain alone is now preparing to accept . 
The raw figures betray how the flow from Syria has become a tidal wave. At the end of 2012, there were 400,000 refugees; one year later, 1.5 million; by December 2014, the total had reached 3 million; today, there are 4 million refugees in neighbouring states - and 6.5 million within Syria itself.  
Such is the wreckage created by Assad's struggle to subdue his people - and the fanaticism represented by the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (Isil). Given that most of Syria's 20 million people have now been driven from their homes, who can be surprised that thousands are heading for Europe? This was surely the most predictable refugee crisis in modern time. 
Now that the tragedy is upon us, two stark lessons should be drawn. The first is that leaving events in Syria to take their course - which was, in effect, the choice made by those who doggedly opposed any form of armed intervention - amounted to a moral failure, with baleful consequences. 
We have it on the authority of Nicola Sturgeon, the SNP leader, that Syria needs a "long term political and diplomatic sustainable solution". Perhaps she missed the Arab League peace plan, proposed within months of the outbreak of war in 2011, only to fall foul of Russian and Chinese vetoes at the United Nations Security Council. 
Ms Sturgeon might also have overlooked the Kofi Annan peace plan of 2012, similarly blocked by Russia and China at the UN. Then there was the Annan Two peace plan, which Assad simply ignored, while Russia supplied him with weapons and Iran sent Hizbollah fighters to keep him in power. 
In retrospect, there was only one course of action that might just have averted today's tragedy - and done so at a time when Isil barely existed and Syria had produced fewer than 20,000 refugees. If the Western powers had told Assad to accept the Arab League peace plan in 2011 or risk an intervention that would have guaranteed his downfall, then Ms Sturgeon's "political and diplomatic" solution might have stood a chance. 
But she did not urge this at the time; instead, she would have marched in the streets to prevent it from happening. Rather than accept the unavoidable reality that diplomacy only works if backed by a willingness to use force, our so-called "anti-war" campaigners  now urge Britain to accept more refugees from very catastrophe which our inaction helped to worsen. 
This bring us to the second lesson: pay attention to the countries which have been forced to live with Syria's agony from the very beginning. 
Almost unnoticed by the Western world, one neighbouring state, Jordan, has managed to stem the flow over the border. During the course of 2013, the number of Syrian refugees in Jordan jumped from 120,000 to 570,000. Since then, the total has stabilised at about 600,000. 
How has this happened? Aid agencies attribute the reduction to far tougher border controls - and that is certainly a big part of the explanation. But it's not the whole story: the number of Syrians entering Jordan illegally, avoiding the established border crossings, is also believed to have fallen. 
The reason is that Jordan has armed and supplied a new rebel coalition which now controls a de facto buffer zone in the provinces of Deraa and Suwayda in southern Syria. Here, large numbers of refugees have gathered. Assad's forces have tried - and failed - to recapture this territory, proving the fighting ability of the insurgents. Crucially, Isil has not yet been able to penetrate this region. 
In Syria, this is what counts as success: a buffer zone held by non-Isil insurgents, where refugees can find relative safety without fleeing their country, let alone risking the journey to Europe. With minimal outside help, Jordan has quietly brought this about in southern Syria. 
If this approach could be replicated in northern Syria then the refugee crisis might become manageable. That will be far harder, mainly because Turkey has chosen to back the most dangerous Islamists while pounding the Kurdish guerrillas in Syria. But, at this desperate moment, there is no other remedy that might help. 
+
Lexis+Story+BRITAIN will take in up to 20,000 refugees from camps near the borders of war-torn Syria in the years to 2020, Prime Minister David Cameron pledged yesterday. 
Mr Cameron told the House of Commons that the UK would live up to its moral responsibility towards the people forced from their homes by the forces of president Bashar Assad and the Islamic State terror group.
He said that Britain would take in vulnerable refugees only from camps in the region, and not those who have crossed the Mediterranean into Europe in their thousands over recent months.
Mr Cameron told MPs: "We are proposing that Britain should resettle up to 20,000 Syrian refugees over the rest of this Parliament.
"In doing so, we will continue to show the world that this country is a country of extraordinary compassion, always standing up for our values and helping those in need."
But why has the refugee crisis - labelled as the greatest migration crisis since the Second World War - become so critical now, after the Syrian war has been going on for four years? The sudden and massive flood of refugees to Europe is partly due to the fact that the war is not getting any better. This has caused those in Syria to leave and those already in exile in Turkey to give up hope of returning home.
Turkey has taken in about two million refugees, but they cannot settle there as Syrians have no right to work there legally.
Conditions in refugee camps are becoming more harsh as UN bodies working with refugees in Jordan, Turkey and Lebanon and eastern Europe are running out of money.
The length of the war has also given people enough time to save up the money to pay smugglers. It has been estimated that every individual might spend about $3,000 to get to Germany.
+
Lexis+Story+ Israeli prime minister Binyamin Netanyahu is resisting calls for Israel to accept refugees from neighbouring Syria, including from politicians who likened the plight of the refugees to Jews desperately seeking a safe haven from Nazi-occupied Europe during the second World War. 
"Israel is not indifferent to the human tragedy of the refugees from Syria and Africa," Mr Netanyahu said. 
"We've already devotedly treated around 1,000 people who were wounded in the battles in Syria and have helped them rebuild their lives. 
"However, Israel is a small country - a very small country. We do not have demographic or geographic depth and we must therefore control our borders - to prevent both the entry of illegal migrants seeking work and perpetrators of terrorism."
Mr Netanyahu's comments came in response to the call from opposition leader Yitzhak Herzog, who argued that Israel, of all countries, had a moral obligation to accept Syrian refugees.
"Jews cannot be apathetic when hundreds of thousands of refugees are seeking safety," he said. "Netanyahu has forgotten what it means to be a Jew. The Jewish people have suffered the world's silence before and cannot ignore the murder and massacre taking place in Syria." Memory of Holocaust 
Mr Herzog urged the government to ensure that Israel was part of a global movement to ease the suffering of those in Syria and elsewhere. 
Deputy minister for regional affairs Ayoub Kara called on Israel to take in a large number of refugees because of the Holocaust.
Syria and Israel have fought three wars, including the Six-Day War in 1967 when Israel captured the strategic Golan Heights from Syria. Anat Berko, a Knesset member from the ruling Likud party, argued it would be irresponsible for Israel to accept refugees from an enemy country. 
+
Lexis+Story+Nearly 100,000 Palestinians have fled Syria to Europe and are living in harsh conditions, Ziad al-Aloul, head of the Palestinian Forum in Europe, revealed on Sunday. 
Aloul told the Al-Resalah online newspaper that some 500,000 Palestinians have fled their homes in Palestinian refugee camps in Syria. Only 200,000 of them have remained inside Syria, while the rest have found shelter in a number of Arab countries.
He also revealed that about 1,000 Palestinians have drowned in the sea while they were on their way to Europe, and that 100 of them were still missing.
About 430 Palestinians and Syrians went missing while they were on their way to Italy, and another 2,300 drowned as they tried to reach Greece, he said.
Meanwhile, the Palestinian Authority announced that it was following "with great interest" the plight of the Palestinian refugees in Syria.
The PA's Foreign Ministry said that most of the Palestinians living in Syria have been forced to leave the country to "unknown destinations because of the harsh conditions surrounding them."
Since the beginning of the unrest in Arab countries, the ministry has formed committees to visit the Palestinian refugees and offer them assistance, it said, adding that PA embassies have been instructed to intensify their efforts to help the refugees.
The ministry said it was also in touch with the United Nations to discuss the possibility of allowing Palestinian refugees in Arab countries to move to the West Bank and the Gaza Strip.
+
Lexis+Story+At no time in recent history has there been a greater need for leadership to deal with the consequences and causes of the global refugee crisis. 
Nothing brings home this truth more than the sight of columns of refugees marching across European borders, from countries such as Iraq, Afghanistan and Syria. 
The Syria conflict has created a wave of human suffering that has rolled out across the region and now reached the shores of Europe. Syrians are fleeing barrel bombs, chemical weapons, rape and massacres. Their country has become a killing field.  
It should come as no surprise that people who have endured years of war, or who have been living in refugee camps on dwindling rations, are taking matters into their own hands. How many of us could honestly say that in their shoes we would not do the same, confronted by fear, lack of hope, and a glaring lack of international political will to end the conflict.
We identified with Syrians when they called for political and economic freedom in their country. We were outraged by the images of their families bombed in their homes, children being dug out of the rubble, and cities overrun by extremists. Whether in Europe or elsewhere, Syrian refugees deserve our compassion. 
Over the past few weeks we have seen many members of the public and growing numbers of political leaders take a moral stand, groups of refugees being welcomed, and new commitments of assistance made. For the first time in years, refugees are leading the news and are at the forefront of debate. 
We need to build on this and make it a turning point in people's understanding not just of the Syria conflict but of the global refugee crisis. It requires us to use not just our hearts but also our heads and not just aid but also diplomacy, and to focus our efforts not just this year, but for years to come. 
We must face some hard truths. The first is that the responsibility to help is not determined by the accident of geography, but by adherence to universal human rights and values. It transcends religion, culture and ethnicity. We should not be reaching for the lowest common denominator in our response to the refugee crisis, but striving to live up to our highest ideals. Every country in the world, not just in Europe, must be a part of the solution. 
Second, there is no question that the scale of the current refugee flow into Europe poses political, social, economic and security challenges for EU countries. When this is voiced, it should not be simply dismissed. It places a particular responsibility on governments to find the resources to deal with the domestic implications and to help refugees to integrate. Syria's neighbours have been bearing much greater burdens for years, with exemplary generosity, and need more assistance. Every country, and every government, needs to have a clear plan to meet their international obligations and balance the needs of their citizens. 
Third, at this moment of emergency, we should be conscious of the distinction between economic migrants, who are trying to escape extreme poverty, and refugees who are fleeing an immediate threat to their lives. All people on the move in these tragic circumstances must have their human rights and dignity respected and their needs understood and addressed. We should not stigmatise anyone for the aspiration to a better life. But refugees are facing an immediate need to be saved from persecution and death and their rights are defined in international law. That is why effective reception and screening are so important, to enable claims to be analysed and protection extended to those who need it.
Furthermore, however much we welcome refugees on our shores, the problem will grow so long as the conflict in Syria continues. We cannot donate our way out of the crisis, we cannot solve it simply by taking in refugees, we have to find a diplomatic route to end the conflict. It is staggering that since the beginning of the war in Syria, the United Nations security council has yet to visit the region, which many of us would see as an essential starting point for diplomacy. The peace initiative that started in Geneva four years ago has petered out, and the energy with which the Iranian nuclear negotiations were conducted has failed so far to materialise for Syria. 
Finally, we should see this for what it is - part of a wider crisis in global governance. Over the past ten years the number of forcibly displaced people in the world has doubled to 60 million. It is unsustainable and beyond what international humanitarian organisations can manage. It is driven by a systemic failure to resolve conflicts. Nothing tells us more about the state of the world than the movement of people across borders. It is time to look for long-term solutions and to recognise that governments, not refugees, have to provide the answer.
This is not the first refugee crisis we have faced, and nor will it be the last. From Europe to America, our countries are built in part on a tradition of helping refugees, from the aftermath of the Second World War to the Balkans conflict of the 1990s. The way we respond now will confirm what kind of countries we are, the depth of our humanity and the strength of our democracies. 
                     Angelina Jolie Pitt is special envoy of the UN High Commissioner for Refugees. Arminka Helic is a member of the House of Lords and a former refugee from the 1990s war in Bosnia-Herzegovina                   
                     Melanie Phillips is away                    
+
Lexis+Story+At no time in recent history has there been a greater need for leadership to deal with the consequences and causes of the global refugee crisis.
Nothing brings home this truth more than the sight of columns of refugees marching across European borders, from countries such as Iraq, Afghanistan and Syria.
The Syria conflict has created a wave of human suffering that has rolled out across the region and now reached the shores of Europe. Syrians are fleeing barrel bombs, chemical weapons, rape and massacres. Their country has become a killing field. 
It should come as no surprise that people who have endured years of war, or who have been living in refugee camps on dwindling rations, are taking matters into their own hands. How many of us could honestly say that in their shoes we would not do the same, confronted by fear, lack of hope, and a glaring lack of international political will to end the conflict.
We identified with Syrians when they called for political and economic freedom in their country. We were outraged by the images of their families bombed in their homes, children being dug out of the rubble, and cities overrun by extremists. Whether in Europe or elsewhere, Syrian refugees deserve our compassion.
Over the past few weeks we have seen many members of the public and growing numbers of political leaders take a moral stand, groups of refugees being welcomed, and new commitments of assistance made. For the first time in years, refugees are leading the news and are at the forefront of debate.
We need to build on this and make it a turning point in people's understanding not just of the Syria conflict but of the global refugee crisis. It requires us to use not just our hearts but also our heads and not just aid but also diplomacy, and to focus our efforts not just this year, but for years to come.
We must face some hard truths. The first is that the responsibility to help is not determined by the accident of geography, but by adherence to universal human rights and values. It transcends religion, culture and ethnicity. We should not be reaching for the lowest common denominator in our response to the refugee crisis, but striving to live up to our highest ideals. Every country in the world, not just in Europe, must be a part of the solution.
Second, there is no question that the scale of the current refugee flow into Europe poses political, social, economic and security challenges for EU countries. When this is voiced, it should not be simply dismissed. It places a particular responsibility on governments to find the resources to deal with the domestic implications and to help refugees to integrate. Syria's neighbours have been bearing much greater burdens for years, with exemplary generosity, and need more assistance. Every country, and every government, needs to have a clear plan to meet their international obligations and balance the needs of their citizens.
Third, at this moment of emergency, we should be conscious of the distinction between economic migrants, who are trying to escape extreme poverty, and refugees who are fleeing an immediate threat to their lives. All people on the move in these tragic circumstances must have their human rights and dignity respected and their needs understood and addressed. We should not stigmatise anyone for the aspiration to a better life. But refugees are facing an immediate need to be saved from persecution and death and their rights are defined in international law. That is why effective reception and screening are so important, to enable claims to be analysed and protection extended to those who need it.
Furthermore, however much we welcome refugees on our shores, the problem will grow so long as the conflict in Syria continues. We cannot donate our way out of the crisis, we cannot solve it simply by taking in refugees, we have to find a diplomatic route to end the conflict. It is staggering that since the beginning of the war in Syria, the United Nations security council has yet to visit the region, which many of us would see as an essential starting point for diplomacy. The peace initiative that started in Geneva four years ago has petered out, and the energy with which the Iranian nuclear negotiations were conducted has failed so far to materialise for Syria.
Finally, we should see this for what it is - part of a wider crisis in global governance. Over the past ten years the number of forcibly displaced people in the world has doubled to 60 million. It is unsustainable and beyond what international humanitarian organisations can manage. It is driven by a systemic failure to resolve conflicts. Nothing tells us more about the state of the world than the movement of people across borders. It is time to look for long-term solutions and to recognise that governments, not refugees, have to provide the answer.
This is not the first refugee crisis we have faced, and nor will it be the last. From Europe to America, our countries are built in part on a tradition of helping refugees, from the aftermath of the Second World War to the Balkans conflict of the 1990s. The way we respond now will confirm what kind of countries we are, the depth of our humanity and the strength of our democracies.
Angelina Jolie Pitt is special envoy of the UN High Commissioner for Refugees. Arminka Helic is a member of the House of Lords and a former refugee from the 1990s war in Bosnia-Herzegovina Melanie Phillips is away
+
Lexis+Story+JERUSALEM --  Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu on Sunday rejected calls from opposition politicians for Israel to accept refugees from Syria, saying that Israel was ''a very small country that lacks demographic and geographic depth.'' He also said that plans to construct a fence along the eastern border with Jordan would go ahead.
The Israeli news media has been dominated in recent days by the dramatic reports and images of the migrant crisis enveloping Europe, and particularly the plight of those fleeing the civil war in Syria.  
  Israel has found itself in a somewhat paradoxical situation: Syria is an immediate neighbor, as are Lebanon and Jordan, countries that have taken in huge numbers of Syrians and share borders with Israel. 
  Yet Israel has remained largely isolated and off the migrants' path, since Syria and Israel are themselves technically in a state of war.
  Isaac Herzog, the leader of the center-left Labor Party and head of the opposition, stirred a heated national debate over the issue after he said on Saturday that ''Jews cannot remain indifferent when hundreds of thousands of refugees are seeking safe harbor.'' He added, ''Our people experienced firsthand the silence of the world,'' alluding to the Holocaust, ''and cannot be indifferent in the face of the rampant murders and massacres taking place in Syria.''
  Israel, a state of about eight million people that was largely founded by refugees, has long been torn between the humanitarian demands of taking in non-Jews in need and its fears about maintaining its Jewish character and security in a hostile and increasingly chaotic region. It is still grappling with the presence of tens of thousands of African migrants and asylum seekers who surreptitiously crossed the border from Egypt in recent years.
  The issue of Arab asylum seekers is further complicated by the unresolved and politically loaded question of the fate of the Palestinian refugees who fled or were expelled during the war over Israel's creation in 1948 and their millions of descendants who demand the right of return to their former homes. The Palestinian refugee issue has become one of the most intractable of the decades-long Israeli-Palestinian conflict.
  President Mahmoud Abbas of the Palestinian Authority on Saturday instructed the Palestinian ambassador to the United Nations to act to bring Palestinian refugees now fleeing the war in Syria to the Israeli-occupied West Bank. 
  The presidency has asked the United Nations, the European Union and other players to press Israel to allow Palestinian refugees in, according to Wafa, the official Palestinian news agency. The Palestinian Authority exercises limited self-rule in some areas of the West Bank, but Israel controls the borders and entry points to the territory.
  In broadcast remarks at the start of the weekly cabinet meeting on Sunday, Mr. Netanyahu said, ''Israel is not indifferent to the human tragedy of the refugees from Syria and Africa. We have already devotedly cared for approximately 1,000 wounded people from the fighting in Syria, and we have helped them to rehabilitate their lives.''
  But he added, ''We must control our borders, against both illegal migrants and terrorism.''
  Other members of the opposition had joined Mr. Herzog's call to take in refugees, including Zehava Galon, the leader of the left-wing Meretz party, and Elazar Stern, a legislator from the centrist Yesh Atid party. Mr. Stern invoked a gesture made by Menachem Begin, the former Likud Party leader, who, as prime minister in the late 1970s, welcomed several hundred Vietnamese boat people to Israel and granted them Israeli citizenship.
  Ministers from Mr. Netanyahu's conservative Likud Party and some coalition partners backed Mr. Netanyahu's arguments against opening Israel's gates to even a limited number of refugees, as did the leader of Yesh Atid, Yair Lapid.
  Yisrael Katz, a Likud minister, suggested that Mr. Herzog should ''at least'' offer to host the refugees in his own home, following the example of the prime minister of Finland. ''But in principle I think this is a strange, mistaken proposal,'' he said of Mr. Herzog's call. ''Israel must not get involved in what is happening is Syria. We are not a European country. We are too close.''
  Mr. Herzog replied to his critics with a post on Facebook on Sunday, writing, ''You have forgotten what it is to be Jews. Refugees. Persecuted.'' Calling again for Israel to take in a limited number of refugees who would be vetted, he added that Mr. Begin ''must be turning in his grave.''
  The African migrants and asylum seekers already in Israel are in a kind of legal limbo. Most are from Sudan and Eritrea, and are afforded blanket protection from deportation in line with international conventions. But Israel has granted only a very few of those who have applied official status as refugees, and their future remains uncertain.
  Israel has mostly halted the influx of Africans across the border from Egypt over the last couple of years, in large part by completing construction of a 150-mile, 16-foot-tall steel border fence stretching from the southern resort town of Eilat to Gaza.
  Having also built security fences on its frontiers with Lebanon and Syria, through parts of the occupied West Bank and along the border with Gaza, Israel now says it is moving ahead with a previously announced plan to build a fence along the border with Jordan. Although Jordan and Israel have signed a peace treaty and that border has long been calm, Israel fears that it could become a vulnerable entry point for illegal migration and hostile infiltrations.
  Mr. Netanyahu said Israel would start by building the fence along a roughly 18-mile stretch from Eilat to Timna, where an airport is under construction.
  ''We are not waiting,'' he said. ''To the extent that it is possible we will encompass Israel's borders with a security fence and barriers.''



+
Lexis+Story+Britain will take up to 20,000 refugees from Syrian camps, David Cameron announced today.
The bigger-than-expected total will be offered asylum over the next four and a half years, depending on need.
Priority places will go to children and vulnerable women in a massive expansion of UK assistance to victims of Islamic State fanatics and the bloody civil war in Syria.
All will be drawn from camps around Syria operated by the United Nations rather than from the thousands who have risked the dangerous crossing to Europe across the Mediterranean. 
Sources say fewer than the 20,000 places being announced today might be taken up, butthey will be in addition to asylum claims from refugees who made it to the UK under their own efforts, who already number 5,000.
The move comes after growing pressure on Britain to take more refugees.
A source said Mr Cameron is sticking with his opposition to EU quotas to allocate people who have already made the crossing as he believes that would encourage other families to undertake the journey and risk drowning.
French president François Hollande declared that France is ready to take in 24,000 refugees over the next two years. In marked contrast with Mr Cameron's policy, he fully endorsed German leader Angela Merkel's proposal to share out a total of 120,000 migrants between the 28 member states of the European Union.
Refugee pledge: David Cameron addresses the House of Commons
The Prime Minister's spokesman revealed there will be a "counter-terrorism" element to this afternoon's statement. He was expected to announce increased military and intelligence resources to assist the fight against people smugglers behind the surge of migrants.
Amid rising speculation about Britain joining air strikes against Islamic State targets in Syria, Mr Hollande said he is considering such a move.
He also announced the French air force will begin reconnaissance missions over Syria for the first time tomorrow, saying: "We have proof that attacks have been planned from Syria against several countries, notably France." Britain already undertakes such flights over Syria.
Mrs Merkel told reporters in Berlin: "Germany is a country willing to take people in, but refugees can be received in all countries of the European Union in such a way that they can find refuge from civil war and from persecution."
She spoke of a "moving, in some parts breathtaking, weekend behind us" but said that Europe's biggest economy was not willing to shoulder the whole refugee burden alone. She said migrants who did not qualify for asylum would have to return to their homes.
Greece requested emergency EU assistance to deal with the massive numbers of boat people reaching its eastern islands from nearby Turkey, totalling more than 230,000 so far. It asked for medical and pharmaceutical supplies, equipment for reception centres, clothing and personnel.
All the signals from No 10 were that Mr Cameron would not sign up to Mrs Merkel's scheme, which would benefit many migrants who have already made the dangerous journey to EU territory. Ministers argue it could encourage more desperate families to risk the dangerous trip across the Mediterranean.
Instead, the Prime Minister was expected to show Britain is not ducking its obligations by announcing a huge increase in Britain's part in the Syrian Vulnerable Persons Relocation (VPR) scheme - which has brought just 216 Syrians to the UK since March last year. Extra numbers would come from camps near Syria and councils will get aid money to help rehouse the refugees.
Read more
                     Cameron to announce plan to help thousands more Syria refugees 
                     Hundreds descend on Dalston social centre to donate goods for Calais                   
                     Aid convoy bound for Calais as public take action over refugee crisis                   
                     Petition launched to swap Katie Hopkins for 50,000 Syrian refugees 
Pressure on Mr Cameron to take in more victims intensified last week after the publication of pictures of three-year-old Aylan Kurdi who drowned with brother Galib, five, and their mother, off the coast of Turkey. Mr Cameron's spokeswoman poured cold water on calls for "safe havens" in Syria, saying: "The challenge is how do you ... ensure it truly is a safe haven?" The Srebrenica massacre of 20 years ago took place inside a supposed UN safe haven.
Asked whether Mr Cameron would follow Band Aid founder Bob Geldof in inviting refugees into his own home, she said: "I think what the British people expect is for the Prime Minister to be looking at what the country's overall response is to these huge numbers of people we are seeing displaced and fleeing conflict. That's what he's been focused on over the weekend - looking at what is the right response such that the UK can take thousands of refugees, not just about numbers in certain households."
Scuffles broke out today between Macedonian police and thousands of refugees and migrants attempting to head north toward Europe.
About 2,000 people gathered at the Greek border near the village of Idomeni just after dawn. Some 1,000 had got through by midday. Greek police said about 5,000 people had crossed the border heading north in the 24 hours from yesterday morning.
An EU source said national quotas were being drawn up for a launch on Wednesday under which Germany will take in more than 40,000 and France 30,000 of a total of 160,000 asylum-seekers relocated from Italy, Greece and Hungary.
+
Lexis+Story+The Government will today announce a package allowing hundreds of Syrian refugees to come to New Zealand and agreeing extra financial aid for refugee camps in countries bordering Syria.
It is understood the Cabinet will sign off on a special intake of Syrian refugees on top of the 750 refugees New Zealand takes under its total annual quota.
The move follows domestic and international calls for governments worldwide to do more to help the 13.5 million victims of the biggest refugee crisis since World War II - pressure which effectively forced Prime Minister John Key"s hand a week after he ruled out further measures until after a review of refugee quotas next year. 
It comes after more than 7000 asylum seekers surged across Hungary"s western border into Austria and Germany over the weekend. They were met with cheers, hugs, hospitality and the hope of a new life.
The final number of Syrians to be offered places in New Zealand under the extraordinary allocation was yet to be finalised last night. But a senior Government source said it was expected to be in the hundreds rather than thousands and could be spread out over up to three years.
Once the details had been worked through with the UN"s refugee agency, the first could arrive within months.
However, there would be no immediate steps to increase the overall refugee quota permanently - such a decision would come after next year"s review.
The Government will also provide extra aid money for refugee camps in countries neighbouring Syria. Over the past four years, it has spent $15.5 million on initiatives such as schools.
The change of stance coincides with pledges of extra help for displaced Syrians from leaders across Europe and around the world.
British Prime Minister David Cameron said the UK would take thousands more refugees and yesterday Australian Prime Minister Tony Abbott said his country would likely take more people from Syria. Finland"s Prime Minister Juha Sipila has even offered his own home to refugees because it is rarely used by his family.
Here, the Labour Party and Green Party have called for a one-off special intake of 750 Syrian refugees this year and a permanent lift in the overall quota to 1000.
Labour leader Andrew Little said organisations working with refugees had told him it would be a stretch but was possible.
Any move by the Government had to be meaningful. "If it"s just 100 or even 200, I don"t think that"s meaningful," he said.
Mr Key has previously voiced concern about ensuring New Zealand did not offer to take more refugees than its resettlement process could handle.
New Zealand takes about 750 refugees from the UN"s refugee agency. There have been special intakes in the past but most have been within annual quotas, including the Tampa refugees from Afghanistan in 2001 and provision for 100 places for Syrians last year.
Since the conflict in Syria began in 2011, New Zealand has taken about 120 Syrians who arrived as part of the quota, under family reunification policies or as asylum seekers.
As more countries in Europe began to join Austria and Germany in taking refugees, Mr Key has been under growing pressure to do the same.
A Double the Quota campaign swept over social media and there were calls for urgent action from the leaders of the Catholic and Anglican churches, Race Relations Commissioner Dame Susan Devoy and groups working with refugees.
From contempt to land of promiseMore than 7000 asylum seekers have surged across Hungary"s western border into Austria and Germany, following the latest policy turn by Hungary"s immigrant-averse Government.
Within hours, travellers predominantly from Syria, Iraq and Afghanistan, who had been told for days they could not leave Hungary, were scooped from roadsides and Budapest"s central train station, bussed to the Austrian border and allowed to walk across.
Check out the Herald"s The Forgotten Millions campaign here.
They were met with unexpected hospitality including free high-speed trains, boxes of supplies and well-wishers offering sweets for everyone and cuddly toys for children.
Even adults absorbed the sudden welcome with a look of wonderment.
"I"m very glad to be in Germany. I hope that I find here a much better life. I want to work," said Homam Shehade, a 37-year-old Syrian shopkeeper who spent 25 days on the road. He left behind his parents, a brother, wife, a 7-year-old boy and a 2-year-old girl who he hopes to bring to Germany. Until then, he said: "I hope that God protects them from the planes and bombs. My shop was bombed and my house was bombed."
As the migrants departed Hungary, some leaders took a few final swipes at their departing guests.
Prime Minister Viktor Orban said Hungary drove the migrants to the border only because they were posing a public menace, particularly by snarling traffic and rail lines west of Budapest when they headed for Austria on foot.
Orban said the people being taken by Germany mostly come "from regions that are not ravaged by war. They just want to live the kind of life that we have. And I understand that, but this is impossible. If we let everybody in, it"s going to destroy Europe."
German media estimate this year"s bill for providing sanctuary will be 10 billion ($17.75 billion), should the forecast 800,000 arrive.
Germany typically places newcomers in housing earmarked for asylum seekers. They are provided free meals, clothing, healthcare and household support, as well as monthly spending money averaging 143. After three months, they receive restricted work opportunities.
By contrast, the migrants left behind in Hungary that stuck them in sweltering outdoor facilities on the Serbian border, left any aid to private charities, and pocketed the money the migrants paid to buy cross-border train tickets that they were blocked from using.
- additional reporting AP
+
Lexis+Story+CANBERRA: Australia is open to taking more refugees from Syria as the crisis in the Middle East worsens, but the Federal Government is unlikely to add any extra places to its humanitarian visa program. 
Tony Abbott has sent Immigration Minister Peter Dutton to Geneva to discuss with the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees what more Australia can do.
"We are disposed to take more people from that troubled region under our refugee and humanitarian program and we are open to providing more financial assistance to the UNHCR in the weeks and months ahead," the Prime Minister said yesterday.
In particular, the Government will look at taking families from persecuted minorities who are in refugee camps in countries around Syria and Iraq.
Australia set aside 4400 of its 13,750 humanitarian visas in the last financial year for refugees from Syria and Iraq.
Asked whether any move to take more refugees from the troubled region would be in addition to the annual intake, Mr Abbott said: "No".
"We are proposing to take more people from this region as part of a very substantial commitment to the UNHCR," he said.
"I'm not going to put a number on it now." Mr Abbott stressed the fact Australia already took the most refugees per capita of any country, and said his Government was ahead of the curve in allocating places specifically for those from Iraq and Syria last year.
Opposition Leader Bill Shorten said Australia could be taking more refugees and giving more money to the UNHCR.
Labor resolved at its July national conference to double Australia's refugee intake to 27,000 by 2025.
The Abbott Government already intends to lift the annual intake to 18,750 by mid-2019.The Greens have called for an emergency extra 20,000 places for refugees fleeing Syria and northern Iraq.
+
Lexis+Story+CANBERRA: Australia is open to taking more refugees from Syria as the crisis in the Middle East worsens, but the Federal Government is unlikely to add any extra places to its humanitarian visa program. 
Tony Abbott has sent Immigration Minister Peter Dutton to Geneva to discuss with the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees what more Australia can do.
"We are disposed to take more people from that troubled region under our refugee and humanitarian program and we are open to providing more financial assistance to the UNHCR in the weeks and months ahead," the Prime Minister said yesterday.
In particular, the Government will look at taking families from persecuted minorities who are in refugee camps in countries around Syria and Iraq.
Australia set aside 4400 of its 13,750 humanitarian visas in the last financial year for refugees from Syria and Iraq.
Asked whether any move to take more refugees from the troubled region would be in addition to the annual intake, Mr Abbott said: "No".
"We are proposing to take more people from this region as part of a very substantial commitment to the UNHCR," he said.
"I'm not going to put a number on it now." Mr Abbott stressed the fact Australia already took the most refugees per capita of any country, and said his Government was ahead of the curve in allocating places specifically for those from Iraq and Syria last year.
Opposition Leader Bill Shorten said Australia could be taking more refugees and giving more money to the UNHCR.
Labor resolved at its July national conference to double Australia's refugee intake to 27,000 by 2025.
The Abbott Government already intends to lift the annual intake to 18,750 by mid-2019.The Greens have called for an emergency extra 20,000 places for refugees fleeing Syria and northern Iraq.
+
Lexis+Story+BRITAIN will take up to 20,000 refugees from Syrian camps, David Cameron announced today.
The bigger-than-expected total will be offered asylum over the next four and a half years, depending on need.
Priority places will go to children and vulnerable women in a massive expansion of UK assistance to victims of Islamic State fanatics and the bloody civil war in Syria.
All will be drawn from camps around Syria operated by the United Nations rather than from the thousands who have risked the dangerous crossing to Europe across the Mediterranean. 
Sources say fewer than the 20,000 places being announced today might be taken up, but Continued on Pages 6 & 7 Continued from Page 1 they will be in addition to asylum claims from refugees who made it to the UK under their own efforts, who already number 5,000.
The move comes after growing pressure on Britain to take more refugees. A source said Mr Cameron is sticking with his opposition to EU quotas to allocate people who have already made the crossing as he believes that would encourage other families to undertake the journey and risk drowning.
French president François Hollande declared that France is ready to take in 24,000 refugees over the next two years. In marked contrast with Mr Cameron's policy, he fully endorsed German leader Angela Merkel's proposal to share out a total of 120,000 migrants between the 28 member states of the European Union.
The Prime Minister's spokesman revealed there will be a "counter-terrorism" element to this afternoon's statement. He was expected to announce increased military and intelligence resources to assist the fight against people smugglers behind the surge of migrants.
Amid rising speculation about Britain joining air strikes against Islamic State targets in Syria, Mr Hollande said he is considering such a move.
He also announced the French air force will begin reconnaissance mis-sions over Syria for the first time tomorrow, saying: "We have proof that attacks have been planned from Syria against several countries, notably France." Britain already undertakes such flights over Syria.
Mrs Merkel told reporters in Berlin: "Germany is a country willing to take people in, but refugees can be received in all countries of the European Union in such a way that they can find refuge from civil war and from persecution."
She spoke of a "moving, in some parts breathtaking, weekend behind us" but said that Europe's biggest economy was not willing to shoulder the whole refugee burden alone. She said migrants who did not qualify for asylum would have to return to their homes.
Greece requested emergency EU assistance to deal with the massive numbers of boat people reaching its eastern islands from nearby Turkey, totalling more than 230,000 so far. It asked for medical and pharmaceutical supplies, equipment for reception centres, clothing and personnel.
All the signals from No 10 were that Mr Cameron would not sign up to Mrs Merkel's scheme, which would benefit many migrants who have already made the dangerous journey to EU territory. Ministers argue it could encourage more desperate families to risk the dangerous trip across the Mediterranean.
Instead, the Prime Minister was expected to show Britain is not ducking its obligations by announcing a huge increase in Britain's part in the Syrian Vulnerable Persons Relocation (VPR) scheme - which has brought just 216 Syrians to the UK since March last year. Extra numbers would come from camps near Syria and councils will get aid money to help rehouse the refugees.
Pressure on Mr Cameron to take in more victims intensified last week after the publication of pictures of threeyear-old Aylan Kurdi who drowned with brother Galib, five, and their mother, off the coast of Turkey. Mr Cameron's spokeswoman poured cold water on calls for "safe havens" in Syria, saying: "The challenge is how do you ... ensure it truly is a safe haven?" The Srebrenica massacre of 20 years ago took place inside a supposed UN safe haven.
Asked whether Mr Cameron would follow Band Aid founder Bob Geldof in inviting refugees into his own home, she said: "I think what the British people expect is for the Prime Minister to be looking at what the country's overall response is to these huge numbers of people we are seeing displaced and fleeing conflict. That's what he's been focused on over the weekend - looking at what is the right response such that the UK can take thousands of refugees, not just about numbers in certain households."
Scuffles broke out today between Macedonian police and thousands of refugees and migrants attempting to head north toward Europe.
About 2,000 people gathered at the Greek border near the village of Idomeni just after dawn. Some 1,000 had got through by midday. Greek police said about 5,000 people had crossed the border heading north in the 24 hours from yesterday morning.
An EU source said national quotas were being drawn up for a launch on Wednesday under which Germany will take in more than 40,000 and France 30,000 of a total of 160,000 asylumseekers relocated from Italy, Greece and Hungary.
Editorial Comment Page 14
+
Lexis+Story+Australia will take more refugees from war-ravaged Syria, with Tony Abbott pledging to do "the right thing" and help the UN -respond to the humanitarian crisis gripping Europe as millions of desperate people flee the conflict.
The Prime Minister said Australia would also consider increasing financial aid to the UN refugee agency as it struggles to deal with people who have been displaced by the fighting, including about 350,000 people who have -entered Europe this year. 
With the national security committee of cabinet due to consider expanding airstrikes to Syria tomorrow, Mr Abbott last night dispatched Immigration Minister Peter Dutton to Geneva to meet with the UN High Commissioner for Refugees, Antonio Guterres, to discuss what more Australia could do to assist with the migration -crisis arising from the conflict.
"Australia is a country which has always taken its international obligations seriously," Mr Abbott said. "Australia is a country which has always done what we can to -assist when people are in trouble around the world, and we certainly are not going to change our character now." While the government will increase its intake of Syrian refugees, it will not increase the overall size of its humanitarian resettlement program, sparking calls from Labor, the Greens and migration advocates for it to do more.
Refugee groups and the Greens demanded the government -urgently resettle at least 20,000 Syrians, with Liberal MPs and premiers including Mike Baird from NSW also urging more be done to assist those fleeing persecution.
Mr Abbott said any increase in refugees from the Middle East would come under existing quotas that are fixed at 13,750 this year and next year, before increasing to 18,770 by 2019.
"No, we are proposing to take more people from this region as part of our very substantial commitment to the UNHCR," he said. "Our focus will be on families and women and children, -especially of persecuted minorities, who have sought refuge in camps neighbouring Syria and Iraq." The government accepted 4400 Syrians and Iraqis in the 2014-15 financial year, and has so far pledged to accept 4500 Syrians over the next three years.
The UN Human Rights Commissioner estimates more than four million people have left Syria since war broke out in 2011, with an additional 7.6 million people displaced within the country.
In Europe this week, Austria and Germany agreed to take thousands more refugees who had been prevented from leaving Hungary, with an estimated 10,000 having crossed the Austrian border within 48 hours.
British Prime Minister David Cameron has said he was willing to take 15,000 Syrians and that he hoped to get authority next month to launch airstrikes in Syria.
Revealing that he had been moved by the "horrific" image of a Syrian boy washed on to the shores of a Turkish beach this week, Mr -Abbott said he believed the -response was in line with the sentiment of most Australians. "The government of Australia, I am sure representing the best instincts of the people of Australia, is prepared to do more in the face of this growing humanitarian -crisis," he said.
Bill Shorten welcomed Mr -Abbott's "belated recognition" that the country had a role to play in the unfolding crisis, but said the government should do more.
"Labor's policy is to increase Australia's refugee intake to 27,000 - I want to ensure this includes more refugees from Syria," the Opposition Leader said.
Mr Shorten said he believed Australia could immediately increase the number of refugees fleeing Syria but did not have a final number in mind.
He said Labor would support moves by the government to increase its intake of refugees.
"I think everyone now wants the Prime Minister to act in a more humane fashion and do something here, and do our bit together," he said.
Mr Shorten and his immigration spokesman, Richard Marles, have also promised a Labor government would provide an extra $450 million to the UNHCR.
Since 2011, the government has provided $155m in humanitarian assistance for the Syrian crisis, and so far this year has provided $100m in humanitarian -assistance for the Middle East.
Greens immigration spokeswoman Sarah Hanson-Young said the rest of the world had been "urgently acting" to help refugees in need while Mr Abbott had made Australia "an international pariah" in its approach to asylum-seeker policy.
"Australia is actually not offering any more assistance to people than we had already committed to," she said. "If this crisis isn't going to lift Australia's refugee intake, what will?" Migration Council of Australia chief executive Paul Power said the government needed to provide a combination of -increased aid and a larger number of placements.
"We need to provide refugees with hope that they can get the assistance that they need," he said.
Amnesty International Australia said Mr Dutton's meeting with the UNHCR must result in an announcement the government will urgently resettle 20,000 Syrians refugees.
The government claims its relative effort in resettling refugees is the best in the world on a per capita basis.
This measure is based on the number of people covered by the UNHCR's resettlement program - about 105,197 in 2014 - but -excludes the 3.3 million refugees who registered for asylum last year but are not in the resettlement program.Lebanon, which has a population of 4.5 million, is hosting about 1.2 million Syrian refugees.
+
Lexis+Story+Australia will take more refugees from war-ravaged Syria, with Tony Abbott pledging to do "the right thing" and help the UN -respond to the humanitarian crisis gripping Europe as millions of desperate people flee the conflict.
The Prime Minister said Australia would also consider increasing financial aid to the UN refugee agency as it struggles to deal with people who have been displaced by the fighting, including about 350,000 people who have -entered Europe this year. 
With the national security committee of cabinet due to consider expanding airstrikes to Syria tomorrow, Mr Abbott last night dispatched Immigration Minister Peter Dutton to Geneva to meet with the UN High Commissioner for Refugees, Antonio Guterres, to discuss what more Australia could do to assist with the migration -crisis arising from the conflict.
"Australia is a country which has always taken its international obligations seriously," Mr Abbott said. "Australia is a country which has always done what we can to -assist when people are in trouble around the world, and we certainly are not going to change our character now." While the government will increase its intake of Syrian refugees, it will not increase the overall size of its humanitarian resettlement program, sparking calls from Labor, the Greens and migration advocates for it to do more.
Refugee groups and the Greens demanded the government -urgently resettle at least 20,000 Syrians, with Liberal MPs and premiers including Mike Baird from NSW also urging more be done to assist those fleeing persecution.
Mr Abbott said any increase in refugees from the Middle East would come under existing quotas that are fixed at 13,750 this year and next year, before increasing to 18,770 by 2019.
"No, we are proposing to take more people from this region as part of our very substantial commitment to the UNHCR," he said. "Our focus will be on families and women and children, -especially of persecuted minorities, who have sought refuge in camps neighbouring Syria and Iraq." The government accepted 4400 Syrians and Iraqis in the 2014-15 financial year, and has so far pledged to accept 4500 Syrians over the next three years.
The UN Human Rights Commissioner estimates more than four million people have left Syria since war broke out in 2011, with an additional 7.6 million people displaced within the country.
In Europe this week, Austria and Germany agreed to take thousands more refugees who had been prevented from leaving Hungary, with an estimated 10,000 having crossed the Austrian border within 48 hours.
British Prime Minister David Cameron has said he was willing to take 15,000 Syrians and that he hoped to get authority next month to launch airstrikes in Syria.
Revealing that he had been moved by the "horrific" image of a Syrian boy washed on to the shores of a Turkish beach this week, Mr -Abbott said he believed the -response was in line with the sentiment of most Australians. "The government of Australia, I am sure representing the best instincts of the people of Australia, is prepared to do more in the face of this growing humanitarian -crisis," he said.
Bill Shorten welcomed Mr -Abbott's "belated recognition" that the country had a role to play in the unfolding crisis, but said the government should do more.
"Labor's policy is to increase Australia's refugee intake to 27,000 - I want to ensure this includes more refugees from Syria," the Opposition Leader said.
Mr Shorten said he believed Australia could immediately increase the number of refugees fleeing Syria but did not have a final number in mind.
He said Labor would support moves by the government to increase its intake of refugees.
"I think everyone now wants the Prime Minister to act in a more humane fashion and do something here, and do our bit together," he said.
Mr Shorten and his immigration spokesman, Richard Marles, have also promised a Labor government would provide an extra $450 million to the UNHCR.
Since 2011, the government has provided $155m in humanitarian assistance for the Syrian crisis, and so far this year has provided $100m in humanitarian -assistance for the Middle East.
Greens immigration spokeswoman Sarah Hanson-Young said the rest of the world had been "urgently acting" to help refugees in need while Mr Abbott had made Australia "an international pariah" in its approach to asylum-seeker policy.
"Australia is actually not offering any more assistance to people than we had already committed to," she said. "If this crisis isn't going to lift Australia's refugee intake, what will?" Migration Council of Australia chief executive Paul Power said the government needed to provide a combination of -increased aid and a larger number of placements.
"We need to provide refugees with hope that they can get the assistance that they need," he said.
Amnesty International Australia said Mr Dutton's meeting with the UNHCR must result in an announcement the government will urgently resettle 20,000 Syrians refugees.
The government claims its relative effort in resettling refugees is the best in the world on a per capita basis.
This measure is based on the number of people covered by the UNHCR's resettlement program - about 105,197 in 2014 - but -excludes the 3.3 million refugees who registered for asylum last year but are not in the resettlement program.
Lebanon, which has a population of 4.5 million, is hosting about 1.2 million Syrian refugees.
MORE REPORTS P2 WORLD P7 INQUIRER P9HENRY ERGAS P10
+
Lexis+Story+Australia will take more refugees from war-ravaged Syria, with Tony Abbott pledging to do "the right thing" and help the UN -respond to the humanitarian crisis gripping Europe as millions of desperate people flee the conflict.
The Prime Minister said Australia would also consider increasing financial aid to the UN refugee agency as it struggles to deal with people who have been displaced by the fighting, including about 350,000 people who have -entered Europe this year. 
With the national security committee of cabinet due to consider expanding airstrikes to Syria tomorrow, Mr Abbott last night dispatched Immigration Minister Peter Dutton to Geneva to meet with the UN High Commissioner for Refugees, Antonio Guterres, to discuss what more Australia could do to assist with the migration -crisis arising from the conflict.
"Australia is a country which has always taken its international obligations seriously," Mr Abbott said. "Australia is a country which has always done what we can to -assist when people are in trouble around the world, and we certainly are not going to change our character now." While the government will increase its intake of Syrian refugees, it will not increase the overall size of its humanitarian resettlement program, sparking calls from Labor, the Greens and migration advocates for it to do more.
Refugee groups and the Greens demanded the government -urgently resettle at least 20,000 Syrians, with Liberal MPs and premiers including Mike Baird from NSW also urging more be done to assist those fleeing persecution.
Mr Abbott said any increase in refugees from the Middle East would come under existing quotas that are fixed at 13,750 this year and next year, before increasing to 18,770 by 2019.
"No, we are proposing to take more people from this region as part of our very substantial commitment to the UNHCR," he said. "Our focus will be on families and women and children, -especially of persecuted minorities, who have sought refuge in camps neighbouring Syria and Iraq." The government accepted 4400 Syrians and Iraqis in the 2014-15 financial year, and has so far pledged to accept 4500 Syrians over the next three years.
The UN Human Rights Commissioner estimates more than four million people have left Syria since war broke out in 2011, with an additional 7.6 million people displaced within the country.
In Europe this week, Austria and Germany agreed to take thousands more refugees who had been prevented from leaving Hungary, with an estimated 10,000 having crossed the Austrian border within 48 hours.
British Prime Minister David Cameron has said he was willing to take 15,000 Syrians and that he hoped to get authority next month to launch airstrikes in Syria.
Revealing that he had been moved by the "horrific" image of a Syrian boy washed on to the shores of a Turkish beach this week, Mr -Abbott said he believed the -response was in line with the sentiment of most Australians. "The government of Australia, I am sure representing the best instincts of the people of Australia, is prepared to do more in the face of this growing humanitarian -crisis," he said.
Bill Shorten welcomed Mr -Abbott's "belated recognition" that the country had a role to play in the unfolding crisis, but said the government should do more.
"Labor's policy is to increase Australia's refugee intake to 27,000 - I want to ensure this includes more refugees from Syria," the Opposition Leader said.
Mr Shorten said he believed Australia could immediately increase the number of refugees fleeing Syria but did not have a final number in mind.
He said Labor would support moves by the government to increase its intake of refugees.
"I think everyone now wants the Prime Minister to act in a more humane fashion and do something here, and do our bit together," he said.
Mr Shorten and his immigration spokesman, Richard Marles, have also promised a Labor government would provide an extra $450 million to the UNHCR.
Since 2011, the government has provided $155m in humanitarian assistance for the Syrian crisis, and so far this year has provided $100m in humanitarian -assistance for the Middle East.
Greens immigration spokeswoman Sarah Hanson-Young said the rest of the world had been "urgently acting" to help refugees in need while Mr Abbott had made Australia "an international pariah" in its approach to asylum-seeker policy.
"Australia is actually not offering any more assistance to people than we had already committed to," she said. "If this crisis isn't going to lift Australia's refugee intake, what will?" Migration Council of Australia chief executive Paul Power said the government needed to provide a combination of -increased aid and a larger number of placements.
"We need to provide refugees with hope that they can get the assistance that they need," he said.
Amnesty International Australia said Mr Dutton's meeting with the UNHCR must result in an announcement the government will urgently resettle 20,000 Syrians refugees.
The government claims its relative effort in resettling refugees is the best in the world on a per capita basis.
This measure is based on the number of people covered by the UNHCR's resettlement program - about 105,197 in 2014 - but -excludes the 3.3 million refugees who registered for asylum last year but are not in the resettlement program.
Lebanon, which has a population of 4.5 million, is hosting about 1.2 million Syrian refugees.
MORE REPORTS P2 WORLD P7 INQUIRER P9HENRY ERGAS P10
+
Lexis+Story+While Israel is not indifferent to the human tragedy of refugees from Syria and Africa, it is a small country that cannot throw its doors open to receive them, Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said Sunday. 
Netanyahu's comments, made at the opening of the weekly cabinet meeting, came a day after opposition leader Isaac Herzog (Zionist Union) called on the government to absorb refugees from Syria.
"We have conscientiously treated over a thousand wounded from the fighting in Syria, and we have helped them rebuild their lives," Netanyahu said. "But Israel is a very small country, with neither demographic nor geographic depth and, therefore, we must control our borders."
Netanyahu said it must secure the borders both against illegal migrants looking for work, as well as from terrorists.
The prime minister said he has been in contact with
African and European countries about developing multilateral economic packages to help the countries from which the economic refugees are leaving en masse.
In a speech to recruit activists in Kfar Hamaccabiah Hotel in Ramat Gan, he defiantly asked the crowd, "Who sent delegations to help the wounded in natural disasters in Nepal, the Philippines and Haiti? Israel! So they shouldn't talk about us helping. This is the help we give."
Justice Minister Ayelet Shaked related to the issue on her way in the cabinet meeting, telling reporters that Israel, as a democratic country, cannot take in a massive number of refugees.
"The country gives humanitarian aid, but absorbing refugees will be done in Turkey or Jordan, but not in the State of Israel," she said.
Immigration and Absorption Minister Ze'ev Elkin said Herzog's proposal, like that of Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas to absorb refugees in the West Bank, is an "attempt to bring the 'right of return' through the back door. That is not responsible, and it is forbidden that it should happen."
Likud MK Nava Boker went so far as to post on her Facebook page upon Syrian refugees to call Herzog.
"Dear Syrian refugees, upon your arrival to Israel, please contact MK Isaac Herzog for accommodations," she posted, along with Herzog's number at the Knesset. "You will be transferred to a comfortable home in the Tzahala neighborhood in Tel Aviv."
Herzog responded to Netanyahu and his other critics by accusing them of forgetting what it means to be Jewish, to be refugees and to be persecuted.
"The prime minister of the Jewish people does not close his heart and gates when people are fleeing persecution with their children in their arms," Herzog said. "After the establishment of his first government, Menachem Begin took in [66] refugees from Vietnam. He would be turning in his grave. I suggest you look at the need for responsibility in the current reality. In this case, to act as part of a concerted international aid effort to offer a limited and controlled number of refugees entrance for humanitarian reasons."
Joint List MK Basel Ghattas (Balad) echoed Herzog's call for Israel to accept Syrian refugees fleeing the ongoing conflict, urging the Israeli government to open up its borders for Syrians and Palestinians alike.
These refugees should be absorbed by Arab society in Israel, which would provide them with economic opportunities, he suggested.
Ghattas also called on Arab society to absorb migrant workers from Africa by providing them with jobs.
+
Lexis+Story+David Cameron has announced that the UK is to resettle up to 20,000 refugees from Syria over the next four and a half years.
Mr Cameron told the House of Commons on Monday that the UK would live up to its moral responsibility towards the people forced from their homes by the forces of president Bashar Assad and the Islamic State terror group. 
He said that Britain would take in vulnerable refugees only from camps in the region, and not those who have crossed the Mediterranean into Europe in their thousands over recent months.
Mr Cameron told MPs: "We are proposing that Britain should resettle up to 20,000 Syrian refugees over the rest of this Parliament.
"In doing so, we will continue to show the world that this country is a country of extraordinary compassion, always standing up for our values and helping those in need."
DUP North Belfast MP called on the Prime Minister to include Northern Ireland in discussions with the devolved countries and regions on the Syrian refugee crisis. The Prime Minister agreed to do so.
Mr Dodds said: "I welcome the Prime Minister's commitment to discuss the Syrian refugee crisis with the First Minister of Northern Ireland.
"There has been a massive outpouring of compassion and the heartfelt sympathy on the part of the people of Northern Ireland for the plight of people fleeing war torn Syria. So I welcome the Prime Minister's commitment to discuss with the First Minister how Northern Ireland can play its fair and proportionate part in alleviating the current crisis.
"It is right that the refugees who come to the UK should come from the refugee camps. To do otherwise only encourages and bolsters inhumane people traffickers who facilitate dangerous and life risking journeys by people coming to Europe.
"It is also right that there is a clear distinction between genuine refugees and economic migrants.
"Northern Ireland rightly has a great reputation for generosity and reaching out to help people in need across the globe.
"It stands ready to again play its proper role as part of the UK in helping to deal with one of the worst humanitarian crises ever to afflict the world."Refugee crisis: how to help
+
Lexis+Story+ABSTRACT
The Arab nations reject the criticism, insisting they have given generously to humanitarian aid programs and provided work for fleeing Syrians. FULL TEXT
The Arab nations of the Persian Gulf have some the world's highest per capita incomes. Their leaders speak passionately about the plight of Syrians, and their state-financed news media cover the Syrian civil war unceasingly.
Yet as millions of Syrian refugees languish elsewhere in the Middle East or risk their lives to reach Europe or died along the way, Gulf nations have agreed to resettle only a surprisingly small number of refugees.
As the migration crisis overwhelms Europe and after images of a drowned Syrian toddler crystallized Syrian desperation, humanitarian groups are increasingly accusing the Arab world's richest nations of not doing enough to help out.
Accenting that criticism are the deep but shadowy roles countries like Qatar and Saudi Arabia have played in Syria by bankrolling rebels fighting President Bashar al-Assad. 
And wealthy Gulf citizens - with or without their governments' knowledge - have helped fund the rise of Syria's jihadists, according to American officials.
''Burden sharing has no meaning in the Gulf, and the Saudi, Emirati and Qatari approach has been to sign a check and let everyone else deal with it,'' said Sarah Leah Whitson, executive director of Human Rights Watch for its Middle East and North Africa division. ''Now everyone else is saying, 'That's not fair.'''
There are, in fact, hundreds of thousands of Syrians in the Gulf, where vast oil wealth and relatively small citizen populations have made the countries prime destinations for workers from poorer Arab countries and elsewhere. While many expatriates are professionals who have built lucrative careers there, most are low-paid laborers who give up their rights to get jobs and can be deported with little notice.
This group now contains many Syrians who have fled the war, although they get none of the protections or financial support that come with legal refugee or asylum status, nor a path to future citizenship - benefits Gulf countries do not grant.
Gulf officials and commentators reject the criticism, however, saying that their countries have generously funded humanitarian aid and that giving Syrians the ability to work is better than leaving them with nothing to do in economically struggling countries and squalid refugee camps.
''If it wasn't for the Gulf states, you would expect these millions to be in a much more tragic state than they are,'' said Abdulkhaleq Abdulla, a political science professor in the United Arab Emirates, which he said has taken in more than 160,000 Syrians in the last three years. ''This finger-pointing at the Gulf that they are not doing anything, it is just not true.''
Others bristle at criticism from the United States and the West, whom they accuse of letting the conflict fester for more than four years while Mr. Assad's forces deployed chemical weapons and bombed civilian areas, causing so many people to flee.
''Why is it that there are just questions about the position of the Gulf, but not about who is behind the crisis, who created the crisis?'' asked Khalid al-Dakhil, a political science professor at King Saud University in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia.
He acknowledged that the Gulf could do more, but directed the blame toward Iran and Russia, which have heavily backed Mr. Assad and his military while also refusing to resettle Syrian refugees.
Fueling the criticism is the tremendous wealth in the Gulf, a region filled with sprawling malls, gleaming skyscrapers and wide boulevards clogged with S.U.V.s. That opulence is clearly lacking in Syria's neighbors, where most of the conflict's more than four million refugees are.
Jordan, for example, has an annual per capita income of $11,000 and has received 630,000 refugees. Lebanon is richer, but has more than 1.2 million Syrians, making them about one-quarter of the population.
Turkey has the most, about two million, with a per capita income of $20,000.
Those average incomes are a fraction of the figures for Qatar, $143,000; Kuwait, $71,000; or Saudi Arabia, $52,000, according to the International Monetary Fund.
Gulf countries have contributed to humanitarian aid. Saudi Arabia has given $18.4 million to the United Nations Syria response fund so far this year, while Kuwait has given more than $304 million, making it the world's third-largest donor. The United States has given the most, $1.1 billion, and has agreed to resettle about 1,500 Syrians.
Many Syrians, too, have criticized the Gulf for trumpeting its outrage while doing little that would compromise its high standard of living.
''We know that the Gulf could take in Syrian refugees, but they have never responded,'' said Omar Hariri, a Syrian who had recently fled Turkey on an inflatable raft with his wife and 2-year-old daughter.
Speaking by phone from Athens, he said he saw hope in Europe, not in the Gulf.
''They have helped the rebels, not the refugees,'' Mr. Hariri said.
This week, the Kuwaiti commentator Fahad Alshelaimi said in a TV interview that his country was too expensive for refugees, but appropriate for laborers.
''You can't welcome people from another environment and another place who have psychological or nervous system problems or trauma and enter them into societies,'' he said.
Cartoonists have lampooned such ideas. One drew a man in traditional Gulf dress behind a door and barbed wire, directing a refugee to another door with the European Union flag.
''Open the door to them now!'' the man yells.
Another cartoon shows a Gulf sheikh shaking his finger at a boat full of refugees while flashing a thumbs-up to a rebel fighter in a burning Syria.
One Syrian took aim at Gulf leaders. ''We are hosting Syrian refugees, but only if they have Kuwaiti citizenship,'' the emir of Kuwait says in one cartoon. In another, the president of the United Arab Emirates says his country has received ''many wealthy refugees'' in Dubai.
Many in the Gulf have turned their ire to the United States and its Western allies, blaming them for not intervening forcefully against Mr. Assad in a way they believe could have ended the conflict and stopped the refugee flow.
Last week, Nasser Al-Khalifa, a former Qatari diplomat, lashed out on Twitter, accusing Western officials of shedding ''crocodile tears'' over the plight of Syrians.
He said unnamed ''other countries'' had wanted to give antiaircraft weapons to the rebels to defend against air attacks on civilian areas, but had been blocked.
He also accused the Obama administration of not forcefully intervening in Syria out of fear that it would ruin the talks with Iran. ''Now European and American officials facing their shortsighted policies must welcome more Syrian refugees,'' Mr. Khalifa wrote.
Michael Stephens, the head of the Royal United Services Institute in Qatar, said that the decision not to directly intervene had left many in the Gulf unsure of how to respond.
''The Gulf Arabs are used to a paradigm in which the West is continuously stepping in to solve the problem, and this time it hasn't,'' Mr. Stephens said. ''This has left many people looking at the shattered vase on the floor and pointing fingers.''
+
Lexis+Story+PM lifts Syrian refugee intake By Stephanie Peatling and Gareth Hutchens Continued Page 7 Australia will take more refugees from Syria in response to the growing international crisis, but will not increase the total number of asylum seekers it accepts, Prime Minister Tony Abbott said on Sunday.
His comments came as Austria and Germany threw open their borders to thousands of exhausted migrants from the east, and Hungary warned the number could grow to millions.
Mr Abbott declined to give a specific figure but said it would be "significant", and indicated it would be more than the 4400 people from Syria and northern Iraq that Australia took last year.
Immigration Minister Peter Dutton was flying to Geneva on Sunday night to hold urgent discussions with the United Nations refugee agency, the UNHCR, about what further contribution Australia can make to the refugee crisis. 
"Like every other Australian I was moved by the horrific imagery of that little boy [Aylan Kurdi] washed up on a beach in Turkey," Mr Abbott said at a news conference. "We have always been a good global citizen ...
this is doing that right thing by Australia, and ... the world."
The announcement comes as international attention is focused on the Syrian refugee crisis.
After days of confrontation and chaos, Hungary deployed more than 100 buses overnight to take thousands of the migrants who had streamed there from south-east Europe to the Austrian border.
Austria said it had agreed with Germany to allow the migrants access, waiving asylum rules.
Hungary has taken a hard line, vowing to seal its southern frontier with a new, high fence by September 15. In particular, it has lashed out at Germany, which expects to receive 800,000 refugees and migrants this year, for declaring it would accept Syrians' requests regardless of where they entered the EU. Prime Minister Viktor Orban said Hungary would deploy police and troops along its border with Serbia after September 15 if parliament approved a government proposal.
"It's not 150,000... it's not 500,000, a figure that I heard in Brussels; it's millions, then tens of millions, because the supply of immigrants is endless," he said.
In Australia, pressure has been growing on the federal government to act, with NSW Premier Mike Baird and Tasmanian Premier Will Hodgman offering to help with any increased efforts. Liberal backbenchers Craig Laundy and Russell Broadbent also called on the government to do more.
Opposition Leader Bill Shorten joined calls for an increase in the number of Syrian refugees.
"Labor believes that we can take more refugees in Australia. We should also be providing greater resources to the [UNHCR]," Mr Shorten said.
Labor supports an increase in the overall number of refugees taken by Australia to 27,000 people a year by 2025, but has not put a specific figure on the number of people from Syria.
Mr Abbott said "no other country on Earth takes more refugees on a per-capita basis" than Australia. A press release from Mr Abbott's office said Australia was "the UNHCR's Refugees rejoice at a bus station in Munich, Germany, after arriving from Hungary via Austria, which has waived asylum rules. Photo: Getty Images We will welcome more Syrians, says PM From Page 1 leading nation for the permanent resettlement of refugees".
The government is increasing the humanitarian program from 13,750 places a year to 18,750 places a year by 2018-19.
Mr Abbott said priority would be given to families and women and children, especially those from persecuted minorities who have taken refuge in camps neighbouring Syria and Iraq.
Australia took 4400 people from Syria and northern Iraq last financial year, which represents about 30 per cent of the 13,750 places in the humanitarian program. Mr Abbott said the Coalition's success in stopping boat arrivals meant the government, not people smugglers, was now in charge of which asylum seekers came to Australia.
"As a result of the government's success in stopping illegal boat arrivals to Australia, we are now in a position to take more refugees from offshore refugee camps," Mr Abbott said.
Mr Dutton will also discuss with the UNHCR increasing government funding to help the agency with the cost of the millions of people who have been displaced by the conflict in Syria.
The Greens want Australia to immediately accept an additional 20,000 Syrian refugees.
Greens immigration spokeswoman Senator Sarah Hanson-Young said the announcement amounted to "virtually nothing" because the government had given "no real commitment" to increase Australia's overall refugee intake.
"We need to be taking more refugees, we need to be putting more funding towards the United Nations, and we need to stop with the callous talk of turning back boats," Ms Hanson-Young said. "It is crucial that we give an emergency intake above and beyond the current numbers of 20,000, to help resettle those ...
children and families fleeing the war zone in Syria.
"[That would be] a small, modest, but meaningful number for Australia and anything less, anything within the current intake, simply isn't good enough. This is a humanitarian crisis."The national security committee of cabinet is expected this week to sign off on a plan that would expand the RAAF's mission beyond the Iraqi border into Syria. Mr Abbott repeated his support for the plan, saying the measure was necessary to combat "the rise of a new barbarism inside this country". with agencies leading nation for the permanent resettlement of refugees".
The government is increasing the humanitarian program from 13,750 places a year to 18,750 places a year by 2018-19.
Mr Abbott said priority would be given to families and women and children, especially those from persecuted minorities who have taken refuge in camps neighbouring Syria and Iraq.
Australia took 4400 people from Syria and northern Iraq last financial year, which represents about 30 per cent of the 13,750 places in the humanitarian program. Mr Abbott said the Coalition's success in stopping boat arrivals meant the government, not people smugglers, was now in charge of which asylum seekers came to Australia.
"As a result of the government's success in stopping illegal boat arrivals to Australia, we are now in a position to take more refugees from offshore refugee camps," Mr Abbott said.
Mr Dutton will also discuss with the UNHCR increasing government funding to help the agency with the cost of the millions of people who have been displaced by the conflict in Syria.
The Greens want Australia to immediately accept an additional 20,000 Syrian refugees.
Greens immigration spokeswoman Senator Sarah Hanson-Young said the announcement amounted to "virtually nothing" because the government had given "no real commitment" to increase Australia's overall refugee intake.
"We need to be taking more refugees, we need to be putting more funding towards the United Nations, and we need to stop with the callous talk of turning back boats," Ms Hanson-Young said. "It is crucial that we give an emergency intake above and beyond the current numbers of 20,000, to help resettle those ...
children and families fleeing the war zone in Syria.
"[That would be] a small, modest, but meaningful number for Australia and anything less, anything within the current intake, simply isn't good enough. This is a humanitarian crisis."The national security committee of cabinet is expected this week to sign off on a plan that would expand the RAAF's mission beyond the Iraqi border into Syria. Mr Abbott repeated his support for the plan, saying the measure was necessary to combat "the rise of a new barbarism inside this country". with agencies
+
Lexis+Story+ 
The Prime Minister was absolutely right to insist that the best way to assist Syria's population is to help them stabilise their country and to make refugee camps in the region as comfortable as possible . Next only to America, Britain spends more than any other country on aid to Syrians - and this figure is set to rise yet again. Officials for the UN's refugee agency have asked that assistance be focused on the Middle East region. Unilaterally declaring that huge numbers of asylum seekers are welcome elsewhere, as Germany has done, only encourages people to make incredibly dangerous journeys believing that there is a safe haven awaiting them in the West. 
Nevertheless, David Cameron was wise to judge that the time has come to increase the number of refugees invited to Britain. He was also correct to say that they should be taken directly from the camps, which cuts out the deadly risks of travelling to, and then across, Europe. By taking this action, Britain has reaffirmed its determination to help. The UK is a generous country with a proud tradition of opening its borders to those fleeing peril. From the Huguenots to the Kindertransport of the late Thirties, Britain has been tested by history and proved its decency. 
But effective charity goes hand-in-hand with pragmatism. What can the West do to help in the long run? Europe is likely to get tough on economic migrants at the same time as it embraces refugees. There is talk of an EU-wide border protection force and automatic return for migrants from "stable" countries such as Pakistan. Schengen and the free movement of people without passports is slowly unravelling; some countries are already resurrecting checks at their border s. Meanwhile, quotas for asylum seekers may take some of the pressure off Italy, Greece and Hungary. The UK, of course, remains opted out of a common immigration and asylum policy. But if Germany processes and accepts an estimated 800,000 asylum seekers, this could conceivably have an impact upon Britain, if they enjoy free movement within the EU and eventual access to the British jobs market. It is time, surely, to ask why other parts of the world do not take a larger share of Syrians. The US or Saudi Arabia could be more accommodating. 
Ultimately, the solution lies in Syria. Writing for this newspaper, Lord Carey, the former archbishop of Canterbury, observes with evident grief the fate of that country. He writes in particular of the persecution of Christians, driven, he says, even from the refugee camps and forced to hide in homes and churches. He talks of the need to create safe and secure enclaves in Syria. Finally, he raises the prospect of the UK joining military action. This will likely be discussed by Parliament after it returns this week and a debate needs to be had, even if domestic politics renders the outcome a foregone conclusion. Jeremy Corbyn, tipped to be the new Labour leader, has indicated that he will block military involvement in Syri a. Britain could be about to see the resurgence of a Left-wing isolationism that regards everything the West does as a hangover from imperialism. Ironically, this comes just as France's socialist president considers sending warplanes to Syria . 
Europe cannot bury its head in the sand. Whether its response to this crisis is military or not, the lesson of the past few weeks is that the migration issue cannot be kicked down the road. The West must agree on practical steps that not only control the flow of people, but also help to build a life in Syria worth returning to. After the emotion of the last week, the sad acknowledgement of the pain involved, must come pragmatism and a resolution to help. 
+
Lexis+Story+Last week, a single photograph sent shock waves through Europe. The image of a lifeless toddler being carried from a beach, having drowned during his family's attempt to reach Europe, dramatically altered the conversation about Syria's refugee crisis. There has been an emotional reckoning, a desire to see something done to help the persecuted and the desperate. Now, however, Europe has to come up with actual solutions.
The Prime Minister was absolutely right to insist that the best way to assist Syria's population is to help them stabilise their country and to make refugee camps in the region as comfortable as possible. Next only to America, Britain spends more than any other country on aid to Syrians - and this figure is set to rise yet again. Officials for the UN's refugee agency have asked that assistance be focused on the Middle East region. Unilaterally declaring that huge numbers of asylum seekers are welcome elsewhere, as Germany has done, only encourages people to make incredibly dangerous journeys believing that there is a safe haven awaiting them in the West. 
Nevertheless, David Cameron was wise to judge that the time has come to increase the number of refugees invited to Britain. He was also correct to say that they should be taken directly from the camps, which cuts out the deadly risks of travelling to, and then across, Europe. By taking this action, Britain has reaffirmed its determination to help. The UK is a generous country with a proud tradition of opening its borders to those fleeing peril. From the Huguenots to the Kindertransport of the late Thirties, Britain has been tested by history and proved its decency.
But effective charity goes hand-in-hand with pragmatism. What can the West do to help in the long run? Europe is likely to get tough on economic migrants at the same time as it embraces refugees. There is talk of an EU-wide border protection force and automatic return for migrants from "stable" countries such as Pakistan. Schengen and the free movement of people without passports is slowly unravelling; some countries are already resurrecting checks at their borders. Meanwhile, quotas for asylum seekers may take some of the pressure off Italy, Greece and Hungary. The UK, of course, remains opted out of a common immigration and asylum policy. But if Germany processes and accepts an estimated 800,000 asylum seekers, this could conceivably have an impact upon Britain, if they enjoy free movement within the EU and eventual access to the British jobs market. It is time, surely, to ask why other parts of the world do not take a larger share of Syrians. The US or Saudi Arabia could be more accommodating.
Ultimately, the solution lies in Syria. Writing for this newspaper, Lord Carey, the former archbishop of Canterbury, observes with evident grief the fate of that country. He writes in particular of the persecution of Christians, driven, he says, even from the refugee camps and forced to hide in homes and churches. He talks of the need to create safe and secure enclaves in Syria. Finally, he raises the prospect of the UK joining military action. This will likely be discussed by Parliament after it returns this week and a debate needs to be had, even if domestic politics renders the outcome a foregone conclusion. Jeremy Corbyn, tipped to be the new Labour leader, has indicated that he will block military involvement in Syria. Britain could be about to see the resurgence of a Left-wing isolationism that regards everything the West does as a hangover from imperialism. Ironically, this comes just as France's socialist president considers sending warplanes to Syria.
Europe cannot bury its head in the sand. Whether its response to this crisis is military or not, the lesson of the past few weeks is that the migration issue cannot be kicked down the road. The West must agree on practical steps that not only control the flow of people, but also help to build a life in Syria worth returning to. After the emotion of the last week, the sad acknowledgement of the pain involved, must come pragmatism and a resolution to help.
+
Lexis+Story+Text of report in English by privately-owned Israeli daily The Jerusalem Post website on 6 September
[Report by Herb Keinon: "Netanyahu: Israel Not Indifferent, But Can't Absorb Syrian or African Refugees"] 
While Israel is not indifferent to the human tragedy of refugees from Syria and Africa, it is a small country that cannot throw its doors open to them, Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said Sunday. Netanyahu's comments, made at the opening of Sunday's weekly cabinet meeting, came a day after opposition leader Isaac Herzog (Zionist Union) called on the government to absorb refugees from Syria.
"We have conscientiously treated thousands of wounded from the fighting in Syria, and we have helped them rebuild their lives," Netanyahu said. "But Israel is a very small country, with neither demographic or geographic depth, and therefore we must control our borders." 
Netanyahu said it must secure the borders both against illegal immigrants looking for work, as well as from terrorists. The Prime Minister said that he has been in contact with African and European countries about developing economic packages to help the countries from which the economic refugees are leaving en masse.
In order to secure the country's border, Netanyahu said, work will begin Sunday on building a security barrier, similar to the one that was built from Gaza to Eilat, on the country's eastern border with Jordan.
"In the first phase we will build it from Timna to Eilat, to protect the airport being built there, and we will continue it to the Golan Heights, where a very strong security fence has already been built," he said.
The goal, Netanyahu said, is to place on Israel's borders fences and obstacles that will make it possible to control its borders. "We will not allow Israel to be flooded with illegal immigrants, work-seekers and terrorist activists," he said.
Justice Minister Ayelet Shaked related to the issue on her way into the cabinet meeting, telling reporters that Israel, as a democratic country, cannot take in a massive number of refugees. "The country gives humanitarian aid, but absorbing refugees will be done in Turkey or Jordan, but not in the State of Israel."
Immigration and Absorption Minister Ze'ev Elkin said that Herzog's proposal, like that of Palestinian [National] Authority President Mahmoud Abbas to absorb refugees in the West Bank, is an "attempt to bring the 'right of return' through the back door. That is not responsible, and it is forbidden that it should happen."
During the cabinet meeting, Netanyahu also discussed Thursday's near lynch of five Jews who lost their way in Hebron while going to pray at the Cave of the Patriarchs, blaming relentless Palestinian incitement against Israelis and Jews for the attack.
Netanyahu said that fortunately "there were individual Palestinians that did the human thing, the obvious thing, and saved them -and we appreciate that. But I call on Abbas to end his incitement and both condemn that action and act against it."
[An unattributed report at 0800 GMT in centrist news site The Times of Israel in English says: "Deputy Minister for Regional Affairs Ayoob Qara on 6 September called on Israel to take in thousands of refugees escaping the violence in Syria and noted that the Jewish state has a moral duty to do so because of the Holocaust. 'Israel needs to take in tens of thousands of refugees from the Syrian minorities, especially the Druze,' Kara, a Druze member of Prime Minister Binyamin Netanyahu's Likud party, told Army Radio. 'It can't be that a people that experienced what it did 70 years ago can disregard this and say 'I am not in the game' - that can't happen.'"]
Source: The Jerusalem Post website, Jerusalem, in English 6 Sep 15
+
Lexis+Story+BEIRUT, Lebanon --  The Arab nations of the Persian Gulf have some the world's highest per capita incomes. Their leaders speak passionately about the plight of Syrians, and their state-funded news media cover the Syrian civil war without cease.
Yet as millions of Syrian refugees languish elsewhere in the Middle East and many have risked their lives to reach Europe or died along the way, Gulf nations have agreed to resettle only a surprisingly small number of refugees. 
  As the migration crisis overwhelms Europe and after images of a drowned Syrian toddler crystallized Syrian desperation, humanitarian groups are increasingly accusing the Arab world's richest nations of not doing enough to help out.
  Accenting that criticism are the deep but shadowy roles countries like Qatar and Saudi Arabia have played in Syria by bankrolling rebels fighting President Bashar al-Assad.  
  And wealthy Gulf citizens -- with or without their governments' knowledge -- have helped fund the rise of Syria's jihadists, according to American officials.
  ''Burden sharing has no meaning in the Gulf, and the Saudi, Emirati and Qatari approach has been to sign a check and let everyone else deal with it,'' said Sarah Leah Whitson, executive director of Human Rights Watch for its Middle East and North Africa division. ''Now everyone else is saying, 'That's not fair.' ''
  There are, in fact, hundreds of thousands of Syrians in the Gulf, where vast oil wealth and relatively small citizen populations have made the countries prime destinations for workers from poorer Arab countries and elsewhere. While many expatriates are professionals who have built lucrative careers there, most are low-paid laborers who give up their rights to get jobs and can be deported with little notice.
  This group now contains many Syrians who have fled the war, although they get none of the protections or financial support that come with legal refugee or asylum status, nor a path to future citizenship -- benefits Gulf countries do not grant.
  Gulf officials and commentators reject the criticism, however, saying that their countries have generously funded humanitarian aid and that giving Syrians the ability to work is better than leaving them with nothing to do in economically struggling countries and squalid refugee camps.
  ''If it wasn't for the Gulf states, you would expect these millions to be in a much more tragic state than they are,'' said Abdulkhaleq Abdulla, a political science professor in the United Arab Emirates, which he said has taken in more than 160,000 Syrians in the last three years. ''This finger-pointing at the Gulf that they are not doing anything, it is just not true.''
  Others bristle at criticism from the United States and the West, whom they accuse of letting the conflict fester for more than four years while Mr. Assad's forces deployed chemical weapons and bombed civilian areas, causing so many people to flee.
  ''Why is it that there are just questions about the position of the Gulf, but not about who is behind the crisis, who created the crisis?'' asked Khalid al-Dakhil, a political science professor at King Saud University in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia.
  He acknowledged that the Gulf could do more, but directed the blame toward Iran and Russia, which have heavily backed Mr. Assad and his military while also refusing to resettle Syrian refugees.
  Fueling the criticism is the tremendous wealth in the Gulf, a region filled with sprawling malls, gleaming skyscrapers and wide boulevards clogged with S.U.V.s. That opulence is clearly lacking in Syria's neighbors, where most of the conflict's more than four million refugees are.
  Jordan, for example, has an annual per capita income of $11,000 and has received 630,000 refugees. Lebanon is richer, but has more than 1.2 million Syrians, making them about one-quarter of the population.
  Turkey has the most, about two million, with a per capita income of $20,000.
  Those average incomes are a fraction of the figures for Qatar, $143,000; Kuwait, $71,000; or Saudi Arabia, $52,000, according to the International Monetary Fund.
  Gulf countries have contributed to humanitarian aid. Saudi Arabia has given $18.4 million to the United Nations Syria response fund so far this year, while Kuwait has given more than $304 million, making it the world's third-largest donor. The United States has given the most, $1.1 billion, and has agreed to resettle about 1,500 Syrians.
  Many Syrians, too, have criticized the Gulf for trumpeting its outrage while doing little that would compromise its high standard of living.
  ''We know that the Gulf could take in Syrian refugees, but they have never responded,'' said Omar Hariri, a Syrian who had recently fled Turkey on an inflatable raft with his wife and 2-year-old daughter.
  Speaking by phone from Athens, he said he saw hope in Europe, not in the Gulf.
  ''They have helped the rebels, not the refugees,'' Mr. Hariri said.
  This week, the Kuwaiti commentator Fahad Alshelaimi said in a TV interview that his country was too expensive for refugees, but appropriate for laborers.
  ''You can't welcome people from another environment and another place who have psychological or nervous system problems or trauma and enter them into societies,'' he said.
  Cartoonists have lampooned such ideas. One drew a man in traditional Gulf dress behind a door and barbed wire, directing a refugee to another door with the European Union flag.
  ''Open the door to them now!'' the man yells.
  Another cartoon shows a Gulf sheikh shaking his finger at a boat full of refugees while flashing a thumbs-up to a rebel fighter in a burning Syria.
  One Syrian took aim at Gulf leaders. ''We are hosting Syrian refugees, but only if they have Kuwaiti citizenship,'' the emir of Kuwait says in one cartoon. In another, the president of the United Arab Emirates says his country has received ''many wealthy refugees'' in Dubai.
  Many in the Gulf have turned their ire to the United States and its Western allies, blaming them for not intervening forcefully against Mr. Assad in a way they believe could have ended the conflict and stopped the refugee flow.
  This week, Nasser Al-Khalifa, a former Qatari diplomat, lashed out on Twitter, accusing Western officials of shedding ''crocodile tears'' over the plight of Syrians.
  He said unnamed ''other countries'' had wanted to give antiaircraft weapons to the rebels to defend against air attacks on civilian areas, but had been blocked.
  He also accused the Obama administration of not forcefully intervening in Syria out of fear that it would ruin the talks with Iran. ''Now European and American officials facing their shortsighted policies must welcome more Syrian refugees,'' Mr. Khalifa wrote.
  Michael Stephens, the head of the Royal United Services Institute in Qatar, said that the decision not to directly intervene had left many in the Gulf unsure of how to respond.
  ''The Gulf Arabs are used to a paradigm in which the West is continuously stepping in to solve the problem, and this time it hasn't,'' Mr. Stephens said. ''This has left many people looking at the shattered vase on the floor and pointing fingers.''



+
Lexis+Story+Prime Minister Stephen Harper faces a rising tide of political pressure to admit more Syrian refugees into the country immediately, with even a prominent critic of the massive 1979 airlift of Vietnamese boat people suggesting Canada needs to do more.
Calls for greater action came from all levels of government and all over Canada Friday, from Ontario's Liberals challenging Ottawa to admit 5,000 more Syrian refugees by year end to Calgary Mayor Naheed Nenshi saying it is a "disgrace" Canada has not already admitted the refugees it has promised to take. 
"Without the will of the government, no amount of civilian support will actually help us get Syrian refugees to this country," said Ratna Omidvar, who heads up Lifeline Syria, an organization that is trying to resettle 1,000 refugees in the Greater Toronto Area.
On Friday - the day after the image of Alan Kurdi lying dead, face down on a Turkish beach, appeared on front pages across the country - Ontario pledged an additional $300,000 to Lifeline Syria so they can hire case workers to help refugees get settled in Canada. New Brunswick and Nova Scotia both donated $50,000 to relief efforts. Manitoba pledged an additional $40,000 to aid Syrian refugee settlement in the province.
Toronto Mayor John Tory also pledged his support to Lifeline Syria by sponsoring a family to settle in the city from the war-ravaged country.
Tory said Friday he is sponsoring the family as part of a group of friends, one of whom asked him to help out just days before the photo of the drowned boy horrified the world.
Since that image was published, Tory said, he has spoken with several Canadian mayors who want to help with the humanitarian crisis.
On Thursday, Quebec Premier Philippe Couillard said he wants to bring hundreds of thousands of refugees into his province (643 Syrian refugees have come since the beginning of the year, and 1,900 are to arrive by year-end).
And protesters gathered in Vancouver, Ottawa, Toronto and Calgary Friday to pressure the government to bring more refugees into the country now.
Even the loudest critic of Canada's decision to airlift Vietnamese boat people into the country en masse, said Canada needs to do more to ease a refugee crisis widely regarded as the worst since the Second World War. While taxpayers watchdog group the National Citizens Coalition (which Harper headed up from 1998-2002) opposed then-prime minister Joe Clark's move to help these refugees, today's organization supports ramped-up efforts.
"That view was short-sighted, that view was strictly financial," said NCC president Peter Coleman. "I think, in a changing world, we have to do our fair share."
He believes Ottawa has already done a great deal to help Syrian refugees and Harper is likely sticking with his prior commitment to bring 10,000 Syrian refugees into Canada over the next three years because there is a process to be followed.
Federal director of the Canadian Taxpayers Federation Aaron Wudrick echoed the concern about making big commitments to aid more refugees in the midst of a campaign, before the cost is properly sketched out.
"If we're going to be honest, the way to develop a sustainable long-term policy is not in the heat of the moment in the middle of a campaign," he said.
A new Angus Reid Forum poll of 1,447 Canadians conducted Thursday found 90 per cent of Canadians have some knowledge of the crisis after the image of three-year-old Alan dead on the beach dominated the day's news. The fact he and his family - all of whom perished except his father - were hoping to make it to Canadian shores sent shock waves through the federal election campaign. However, the startling image may not be the game changer some had predicted.
"Political watchers were certainly thinking this might be a turning point in the campaign, but if you look at that data, what you see is that Canadians are not only just divided on what to do ... but also, divisions cut really obviously along political lines," said Shachi Kurl, senior vice-president of Angus Reid. Ashley Csanady and The Canadian Press contributed to this report !@COPYRIGHT=© 2015 Postmedia Network Inc. All rights reserved.
+
Lexis+Story+BRITAIN will act with its head and heart' by accepting thousands more' refugees from Syria, David Cameron said yesterday.
The Prime Minister also pledged to increase aid given for those fleeing the conflict to £1billion, making it the country's largest ever response to a humanitarian crisis.
But when asked if Britain would take part in air strikes against Islamic State in the war-torn country, he said he would do it only with genuine consensus' - which could be less likely if Jeremy Corbyn becomes Labour leader. 
Mr Corbyn has recently said he can't think' of any circumstances when he would back British action abroad.
During visits to Lisbon and Madrid, Mr Cameron said Britain had a moral responsibility' to help refugees as he revealed thousands will be brought to the country from camps on the Syrian border.
He declined to give a precise figure on the number who will be admitted, saying the details were being finalised and will be announced next week.
Mr Cameron, who has been under fire from European leaders for his reluctance to help share the burden of refugees already in Greece, Hungary and Italy, warned their plan could lead to more deaths.
The European Union is expected to next week propose a quota system to relocate 160,000 asylum seekers who are already in Europe in order to ease the pressure on the three countries.
But Mr Cameron - who has already exercised an opt-out and rejected taking part - said Britain's plan to take people directly from refugee camps was better' and warned the EU plan was not the right approach'.
As he urged European leaders to reconsider, he said: We happen to think this is not the right approach because it can encourage people to make the journey.
We have a clear view that the best way to help people is not to encourage people to make this dangerous journey, but to resettle people from the refugee camps.
We have to break this link between getting on a boat and getting settlement in Europe.'
Mr Cameron said admitting refugees can only ever be part of the answer' and that a comprehensive approach was needed, including using aid to alleviate suffering in the countries which migrants come from.
We are already the second-largest bilateral donor of aid to the Syrian conflict and we will provide a further £100million, taking our total contribution to over £1billion,' he said. No other European country has come close to this level of support.'
Asked if military action in Syria was inevitable', Mr Cameron appeared to indicate that he would proceed only with backing from Labour.
He said: We support the action that is being taken against IS in Syria, in Iraq the RAF has carried out a whole series of strikes that, with allies, have degraded and set back IS.
I believe that process should continue and will continue. But we already support what is happening in Syria. We are providing intelligence, we are providing air support, we're providing refuelling support.
But I will only proceed going further on this issue if there's genuine consensus in the United Kingdom about it before going back to Parliament.'
In August 2013, Mr Cameron went to the Commons seeking support for air strikes in Syria but it was rejected without Labour backing.
Comment - Page 18
j.stevens@dailymail.co.uk
© Daily Mail
+
Lexis+Story+A Coalition MP has made an impassioned plea to the Abbott government to consider taking more refugees from Syria in response to the growing humanitarian crisis in Europe.
Craig Laundy made the call to Julie Bishop and Immigration Minister Peter Dutton after being shown by his 16-year-old daughter the harrowing picture of a young boy whose body had washed up on a beach in Turkey.
"Can we please do more?" the MP from western Sydney asked Ms Bishop on Friday morning. 
Foreign Minister Julie Bishop later told reporters the question of an increased intake was "under consideration", although Tony Abbott suggested a further increase was unlikely.
The Abbott government is being urged to take an extra 20,000 Syrian refugees to demonstrate Australian compassion in response to the largest movement of people since World War II.
Global aid agencies have backed a call by the Greens to approve the temporary increase, grant asylum to Syrian refugees already in Australia or in offshore detention and make an emergency contribution to the United Nations refugee agency to address the crisis.
Several government MPs, including Mr Laundy, Barnaby Joyce and Russell Broadbent, are supporting an increase in the intake as well as a skewing of the existing intake towards Syrian refugees.
Declaring "we can do better", World Vision's Tim Costello has urged the government to take more refugees as it moves to approve bombing of Islamic State targets in Syria. The Refugee Council of Australia is backing the call for an increased intake, saying Australia has contributed to the flow of desperate people by "closing our borders in the way that we have".
"Australia has a responsibility, capacity and the resources to be able to scale up our refugee intake generally, but the scale of the humanitarian crisis in Syria provides additional urgent impetus for us to act," said the council's chief executive, Paul Power.
While Ms Bishop said Australia would play its part and that "this matter is under review by the Minister of Immigration", Mr Abbott suggested no further increase was being contemplated.
He said Australia had already agreed to take an extra 4400 refugees from Syria and Iraq, saying the success of its actions to stop boat arrivals had made this possible.
Mr Laundy, a father of three, said that after seeing the photo of the dead child "we broke down as a family around the dinner table thinking, 'There but for the grace of god go any of us'. I say this to the Australian people: 'Put yourself in these people's position. If you were faced with what they are faced with, would you put your life at risk to give your children a chance'? My answer is yes."
The Prime Minister was untroubled by a scathing attack on Australia's approach to border protection by The New York Times, saying the most compassionate thing a country could to in the medium to long term was shut down the people-smuggling trade.
"It's obviously a crisis right now on the borders of Europe and I think a lot of people right around the world are looking at what we've done and said, 'Well, if Australia can stop the people smuggling trade, if Australia can end the deaths at sea, perhaps we can learn from them'."
An editorial in the newspaper described Mr Abbott's policies as "inhumane, of dubious legality and strikingly at odds with the country's tradition of welcoming people fleeing persecution and war".
Greens leader Richard Di Natale has written to Ms Bishop and Mr Dutton requesting the increase. "Four million people are fleeing war in Syria. Two million of those are children. To welcome 20,000 of them into our community would be such an honourable and dignified response from Australia," Senator Di Natale said.
"Australia has an opportunity to do something great here. We have the strength, the capacity and the generosity to support people who are seeking safety," said Greens immigration spokeswoman Senator Sarah Hanson-Young.
Anoop Sukumaran, executive director of the Asia Pacific Refugee Rights Network, said a substantial increase in Australia's refugee intake would help rebuild the credibility lost as a result of this country's "extreme" and "draconian" refugee policies.
Oxfam Australia's Dr Helen Szoke backed the intake increase and called on governments to improve infrastructure and support local economic development, education and health programs in neighbouring countries, to ensure people living in crisis-affected communities and refugees can access basic services.
Mr Joyce was touched by the personal story of a man whose plastic bag of water bottles and a packet of biscuits were his only possessions in the world.
"As an accountant myself, when you see an accountant walking across the border into Hungary from Syria when his life has been destroyed I feel a sense of empathy for him," Mr Joyce told The West Australian.
+
Lexis+Story+BRITAIN will take "thousands more" refugees from camps on the borders of war-torn Syria, as well as providing an additional £100m in aid for those fleeing the conflict, Prime Minister David Cameron has announced.
Downing Street declined to put a precise figure on the number of Syrians who will be admitted to the country, saying that details of the scheme were being finalised and will be announced next week. 
Speaking during visits to Portugal and Spain, Mr Cameron said that Britain had a "moral responsibility" to help refugees. But there was no indication that Britain would be willing to resettle any of the hundreds of thousands of desperate people who have made perilous Mediterranean crossings by boat to reach Europe over the past few months.
The £100m funding pledge for refugee camps on Syria's borders brings the total contribution from the UK to more than £1bn, making it Britain's largest ever response to a humanitarian crisis, said Mr Cameron. During his visit to Lisbon, Mr Cameron said that Britain had already offered asylum to around 5,000 Syrians in recent years and had introduced a resettlement scheme for residents in refugee camps deemed to be particularly at risk.
"Given the scale of the crisis and the suffering of people, today I can announce that we will do more, providing resettlement for thousands more Syrian refugees," he said.
"We will continue with our approach of taking them from the refugee camps. This provides them with a more direct and safe route to the United Kingdom, rather than risking the hazardous journey which has tragically cost so many their lives."
Mr Cameron said details of the scheme would be announced next week, after discussions with NGOs and other partners, and Britain would act with "our head and our heart".
Speaking later in Madrid, the PM said that admitting refugees "can only ever be part of the answer" to the migration crisis and that a comprehensive approach was needed, including using aid to alleviate suffering in the countries which migrants come from.
"We are already the second-largest bilateral donor of aid to the Syrian conflict, and today I can announce that we will provide a further £100m, taking our total contribution to over £1bn," said Mr Cameron.
"That is the UK's largest ever response to a humanitarian www.crisis.No other European country has come close to this level of support.
"£60m of this additional funding will go to help Syrians still in Syria. The rest will go to neighbouring countries, to Turkey, Jordan and Lebanon, where Syrian refugees now account for one-quarter of the population.
"Britain's aid is supporting these camps. If we were not doing that, the numbers attempting the dangerous journey to Europe would be far, far higher."
Mr Cameron said the UK would also carry on supporting efforts to detect and disrupt people-smuggling gangs and continue search and rescue operations to save migrants in the Mediterranean which have already assisted more than 6,700 people.
"Britain will act with her head and her heart," said the PM. "For those economic migrants seeking a better life, we will continue to work to break the link between getting on a boat and getting settlement in Europe, discouraging those who don't have a genuine claim from embarking on these perilous and sometimes lethal journeys. For those genuine refugees fleeing civil war, we will act with compassion and continue to provide sanctuary."
Asked about the total number of refugees who could be admitted, Mr Cameron said: "There is not a number of people we can take that will bring this crisis to an end. To bring this crisis to an end you need a comprehensive approach, you need a government in Libya, you need a solution in Syria. And you need to go on with the frankly vital work of our aid budget funding the refugee camps, where the vast majority of Syrian refugees remain.
"It is quite clear that when you are dealing with a crisis of that scale that resettling refugees cannot be the answer to the problem. "But Britain is a moral country with a moral conscience and we respond rightly to humanitarian crises and that is why we will be taking thousands of refugees. But let's not pretend that that alone will deal with the problem."
Mr Cameron said: "As a father and as a human being you cannot help but be moved by these terrible pictures, seeing the picture of that poor child on the beach in Turkey. Those images will remain with all of us for a very very long time. But the question you have to ask not just as a father but as a Prime Minister is what are the actions we can take that will really make a difference? "That is why, in taking additional refugees, because of course every one we take we can offer a new chance and a new life to, I think it is important we take them from Syrian refugee camps.
"I want to send the message out that the best way to get a new life is not to make this perilous journey."
International Development Secretary Justine Greening again refused to confirm how many more asylum seekers Britain would accept, saying details would be announced next week.
She also dismissed the prospect of the UK participating in EU plans to redistribute around 160,000 of the asylum seekers who have arrived in Italy, Greece and Hungary.
"We are not committed to doing any quotas and we don't believe that that in the end will be a real solution to this," she told BBC Radio 4's World At One.
"We think the risk is it simply fuels the people-smuggling business."
+
Lexis+Story+More than 40 local councils across Britain have responded to an appeal to offer sanctuary to people fleeing the fighting in Syria.
Members of the public have also shown their support by donating hundreds of thousands of pounds to charities working to help refugees.
David Cameron has bowed to intensifying political pressure and announced that Britain would take "thousands more" refugees from the camps in countries around Syria. 
Elsewhere in Europe hundreds of refugees, many of whom hope to reach Germany, made their way to the Hungary-Austria border overnight.
Buses, provided by Hungary's government, have been pictured near the border at Hegyeshalom after Austria and Germany said they would allow them entry.
Labour leadership contender Yvette Cooper - who earlier this week called for the UK to take 10,000 refugees - said local authorities around the country had shown a "rising sense of moral purpose".
Read more
                     Evening Standard comment: London will welcome Syrian refugees 
                     Drowned boys buried in home town as London opens its arms to refugees 
                     Aunt of drowned Syrian refugee children 'regrets giving family money'                   
The shadow home secretary said that within 24 hours of her asking councils in England, Scotland and Wales asking if they would be prepared to help in providing places for refugees, more than 40 had written back offering support.
The disclosure came after David Cameron, bowed to intensifying political pressure and announced that Britain would take "thousands more" refugees from the camps in countries around Syria.
Ms Cooper said it was now up to the Government to work with local authorities to ensure as many people as possible were helped.
"Already councils from across the country have said they want to work with the Government to help Britain offer sanctuary to more refugees," she said.
"There is a real determination and rising sense of moral purpose across Britain to help desperate families. But now the Prime Minister needs to match it.
"I'm once again urging the Government to work with councils to offer as many as 10,000 places for refugees and be part of a national mission to deal with this terrible humanitarian crisis."
In a speech on Tuesday, Ms Cooper argued that if every London borough and county council took 10 families and Scotland, Wales and the English regions all played their part, it would be possible to create almost 10,000 places within a month.
During a visit to Portugal and Spain on Friday, Mr Cameron said the UK would act with "our head and our heart" with a major expansion of the programme to resettle vulnerable refugees from the camps bordering Syria.
He said the scheme would avoid the need for the refugees to make the hazardous sea crossing of the Mediterranean to reach sanctuary in Europe which has seen thousands perish over the course of the summer.
Critics complained his statement said nothing about helping the tens of thousands who have flooded into the EU and are struggling to make their way across the continent in the hope of claiming asylum in the wealthier nations of the north.
However a Populus poll of 1689 people, reported in The Times, suggested the country was divided over the right response to the crisis with a narrow majority - 51% - saying that they did not believe the Government needed to go any further.
International Development Secretary Justine Greening dismissed the prospect of Britain joining a proposed EU plan to redistribute some 160,000 migrants already in Europe saying it "simply fuels the people smuggling business".
Mr Cameron had been under intense pressure to act after the publication of pictures of the body of three-year-old Aylan Kurdi washed up on a Turkish beach shocked the world.
So far, just 216 Syrians have been admitted to the UK under the scheme to help the most vulnerable people in refugee camps, while a further 5,000 have been granted asylum over the past four years.
The Local Government Association (LGA) warned it was essential that resources were made available to support public services if the numbers of refugees being re-settled in the UK were to increased significantly.
David Simmonds of the LGA's asylum, refugee and migrant task force said councils in England were already supporting 2,000 unaccompanied refugee children at a cost of £50,000-a-year for each child.
A further £150 million-a-year was being spent on destitute families who had had their asylum applications turned down but who remained in the UK.
"If we are going to scale those numbers up significantly we need to make sure that those kinds of resources are available to England's councils and also other public services to make sure that we have what is required in terms of school places, hospital beds, GPs that sort of thing," he told the BBC Radio 4 Today programme.
He said councils would welcome it if other families with space available were to follow the example of Bob Geldolf who has offered to put up four refugee families at his homes in Kent and London.
However he suggested the priority would be to place refugees who were already in the UK rather than those awaiting re-settlement from the camps.
"I am sure that many local councils would be delighted if those who have got space are making that offer because I am sure that we could offer those places to some of the refugee families who are already in the UK," he said.
Additional reporting by the Press Association.
+
Lexis+Story+What has Britain done to help Syrian refugees? Until January last year, British policy was to supply funding to programmes helping refugees in countries neighbouring Syria but not to resettle any in the UK. That aid amounts to £900 million to date and has gone to fund the running of refugee camps, food, water and medical provisions, along with other services. 
Britain resisted pressure to join the UN resettlement programme launched in September 2013, but last year set up the vulnerable persons relocation scheme, which prioritises victims of sexual violence and torture, the elderly and those in medical need. 216 refugees have been resettled in the UK. They have each been given a five-year humanitarian protection visa, after which they can apply to remain in Britain indefinitely. They also receive 12 months of housing and financial support and English lessons funded by central government.
What are conditions like in the refugee camps around Syria? Variable. Jordan and Turkey have large camps that have struggled to cope with massive influxes. The vast majority of refugees, more than 80 per cent, live outside camps with little formal assistance. Lebanon has no formal camps because of government resistance, so many refugees live in makeshift settlements. Clampdowns on refugees working have left many without a livelihood and entry conditions have been toughened as neighbouring countries struggle to cope.
Eighty per cent of children in camps attend school, but only 25 per cent outside camps do. This summer the UN halved food aid to refugees in Lebanon and Jordan because of a lack of funds: of the $4.5 billion needed this year to support Syria refugees, by June only $1 billion had been pledged. The UN has warned that it may be unable to meet basic survival needs in the coming months, including shelter, fuel, clothing and blankets for 1.7 million this winter.
How might an expanded UK refugee acceptance scheme work? It is likely to be based on the existing one, targeting the most vulnerable or needy cases, as identified by the UN. A refugee's chances of adjusting to life in Britain may also be weighed up. It would be limited to those who were officially registered by the UN refugee agency, and would not be open to those who had already reached Europe. Whether the scheme would be open to Syrian refugees who are now in Turkey is unclear, as Turkey does not allow them to be granted full refugee status. If they cannot be included, the plan may do little to alleviate the present crisis as Turkey is where the bulk of Syrian refugees attempting to reach Europe are coming from, and where the bulk of those now fleeing Syria are arriving.
+
Lexis+Story+After three-year-old Aylan Kurdi's body was found on a Turkish beach on Wednesday, the photographs published online shocked the world and led to greater calls for EU governments to accept more Syrian refugees. 
This year there has been record numbers of arrivals and figures show 100,000 reached EU borders in July. In one week in mid-August, 20,843 migrants - virtually all of them fleeing war and persecution in Syria, Afghanistan and Iraq - washed up on the shores of Greek islands, making up nearly half of last year's total. 
Since the beginning of the year, more than 160,000 migrants have made their way to Greece - nearly four times the 43,500 who arrived in the country during all of 2014, the UN refugee agency said.  
But why do refugees and migrants come to Europe? And what can be done to solve the crisis? King's College London academics explain. Why do refugees come to Europe?
Charles Kirchofer, PhD Candidate, department of war studies 
Middle Eastern countries are destinations for refugees, with the UN expecting the number in Jordan alone to exceed one million by the end of this year. That is a substantial burden for a country with a population of only 6.5 million and a per capita GDP of just £3,400 per year. With a population 10 times the size, per capita GDP 8 times as high, and just 170,000 refugees, the UK could certainly do more. 
But Jordan is struggling to supply all the refugees within the country with basic services like food, sanitation, and health care. Refugees are thus forced to continue onward to reach a better life, preferably in a rich country in Europe. The UN reports around 1.2 million refugees in Lebanon, with most coming from Syria. The Lebanese government is notoriously ineffectual, unable to supply its own citizens with steady electricity or, since this summer, Beirut with sufficient rubbish collection . 
Its ability to care for the masses of refugees, even with the assistance of the UN, is therefore limited. It is thus no wonder many seek placement, through official channels or otherwise, in Europe . 
Eugenio Lilli, department of war studies 
People fleeing armed conflict in the Middle East migrate to Europe because they see Europe as a place of peace and wealth compared to the violence and despair that characterise their home countries. 
However, such a trend should not be overemphasised. For example, in the case of Syria, the data available clearly shows that the great majority of Syrian refugees has so far resettled in neighbouring Jordan, Lebanon, and Turkey and not in European countries. 
Pablo de Orellana, teaching fellow, department of war studies 
This is not a crisis of economic migration. The human tragedy in the Mediterranean is the humanitarian fallout of two wars that have no prospect of resolution. In Libya the fall of Muammar Gaddafi has left the country divided and spiralling into increased violence, while in Syria horrifying human rights abuses, particularly of religious and ethnic minorities, are a self-explanatory incentive to flee. 
It is now impossible to pretend that these refugees choose to become economic migrants, or that Western policy in Libya and Syria is unrelated. 
Dalibor Rohac, research fellow at the American Enterprise Institute in Washington DC 
According to Frontex, the largest ethnic group of asylum-seekers that have entered the EU this year are Syrians, followed by Afghanis. The humanitarian catastrophe in Syria has been dramatic and the bulk of the displaced Syrians have so far sought refuge in other Arab countries, such as Lebanon, Jordan, Iraq, or Egypt. 
In contrast, some of the wealthier states of the region, most conspicuously Saudi Arabia and the Gulf states, have shown very little willingness to let refugees in. 
+
Lexis+Story+After three-year-old Aylan Kurdi's body was found on a Turkish beach on Wednesday, the photographs published online shocked the world and led to greater calls for EU governments to accept more Syrian refugees. 
This year there has been record numbers of arrivals and figures show 100,000 reached EU borders in July. In one week in mid-August, 20,843 migrants - virtually all of them fleeing war and persecution in Syria, Afghanistan and Iraq - washed up on the shores of Greek islands, making up nearly half of last year's total. 
Since the beginning of the year, more than 160,000 migrants have made their way to Greece - nearly four times the 43,500 who arrived in the country during all of 2014, the UN refugee agency said.  
But why do refugees and migrants come to Europe? And what can be done to solve the crisis? King's College London academics explain. Why do refugees come to Europe?
Charles Kirchofer, PhD Candidate, department of war studies 
Middle Eastern countries are destinations for refugees, with the UN expecting the number in Jordan alone to exceed one million by the end of this year. That is a substantial burden for a country with a population of only 6.5 million and a per capita GDP of just £3,400 per year. With a population 10 times the size, per capita GDP 8 times as high, and just 170,000 refugees, the UK could certainly do more. 
But Jordan is struggling to supply all the refugees within the country with basic services like food, sanitation, and health care. Refugees are thus forced to continue onward to reach a better life, preferably in a rich country in Europe. The UN reports around 1.2 million refugees in Lebanon, with most coming from Syria. The Lebanese government is notoriously ineffectual, unable to supply its own citizens with steady electricity or, since this summer, Beirut with sufficient rubbish collection . 
Its ability to care for the masses of refugees, even with the assistance of the UN, is therefore limited. It is thus no wonder many seek placement, through official channels or otherwise, in Europe . 
Eugenio Lilli, department of war studies 
People fleeing armed conflict in the Middle East migrate to Europe because they see Europe as a place of peace and wealth compared to the violence and despair that characterise their home countries. 
However, such a trend should not be overemphasised. For example, in the case of Syria, the data available clearly shows that the great majority of Syrian refugees has so far resettled in neighbouring Jordan, Lebanon, and Turkey and not in European countries. 
Pablo de Orellana, teaching fellow, department of war studies 
This is not a crisis of economic migration. The human tragedy in the Mediterranean is the humanitarian fallout of two wars that have no prospect of resolution. In Libya the fall of Muammar Gaddafi has left the country divided and spiralling into increased violence, while in Syria horrifying human rights abuses, particularly of religious and ethnic minorities, are a self-explanatory incentive to flee. 
It is now impossible to pretend that these refugees choose to become economic migrants, or that Western policy in Libya and Syria is unrelated. 
Dalibor Rohac, research fellow at the American Enterprise Institute in Washington DC 
According to Frontex, the largest ethnic group of asylum-seekers that have entered the EU this year are Syrians, followed by Afghanis. The humanitarian catastrophe in Syria has been dramatic and the bulk of the displaced Syrians have so far sought refuge in other Arab countries, such as Lebanon, Jordan, Iraq, or Egypt. 
In contrast, some of the wealthier states of the region, most conspicuously Saudi Arabia and the Gulf states, have shown very little willingness to let refugees in. 
+
Lexis+Story+Syria is the land of my birth. One night in 1963, after a military coup that had placed the Arab Socialist Ba'ath party in power and at the imploring of my mother, I fled our home in Damascus, in the clothes I wore and with a single suitcase. I was 24. 
                     · EU refugee crisis: latest news and updates                    
Many of my contemporaries who chose not to leave, despite their parents' fears, suffered beatings, imprisonment, or worse. Escaping Syria did not place me in the same appalling situation as today's refugees. But as I watch their plight today, I recall the misery of fleeing in fear of one's life. 
I implore the Prime Minister to follow Britain's best instincts and accept a fair number of the refugees who have endured so much, and deserve a welcome in Britain's traditionally tolerant and humane society.
The people we see on our television screens in Hungary and Greece have already taken huge risks to get this far, mostly at the mercy of human traffickers. Only the fear of death forces people to make these choices: to walk railway tracks at night, to take the chance of containment in a sealed lorries, to risk being drowned on a holiday maker's beach. Many hundreds have lost their lives, dying in horrendous conditions. 
They came in desperation because they had no choice but to leave Syria - they are fleeing torture, bombing, killings, the destruction of their homes and heritage. In running away from hell, they hope for a safe haven to provide a better life for themselves and their families. In such a terrible situation, would we not all do the same? 
I stress this point because Syrians are not economic migrants. How Europe handles genuine refugees is a different ethical issue from the challenge of migration. Victims of war, like those of ethnic cleansing, driven from their countries by the threat of destruction, present an obligation to help. European states should respond as they did for refugees from Nazi Germany, or Franco-ist Spain, or Idi Amin's Uganda. 
We should remember too, that while thousands have fled to southern Europe these statistics bear no comparison to the burden being borne by Syria's neighbours where Jordan, Turkey, and Lebanon have in excess of one-and-a-half million refugees, each . These are countries in a much weaker position economically than Europe, and with far more vulnerable social infrastructure. 
But as well as knowing what it feels like to be a refugee, I know what it is to be made welcome by another country. I am hugely grateful to Britain, which welcomed me when I could not return, for decades, to Syria. I have lived in the West ever since, and greatly admire European values. 
I therefore struggle to understand why Europe, with the exception of Germany so far, is not doing more to help the Syrian refugees. Many Europeans were refugees in the past, during the Second World War for example, and Europe has a proud tradition of welcoming genuine asylum seekers escaping the horrors of war and persecution. Refugees from the Armenian genocide are another example; they were received with compassion, tolerance and understanding. 
Above all, Britain has an unequalled reputation for helping victims of persecution from countries all over the world - and not just those with close links to the UK. It stems from basic decency and mercy. It would be a reversal of a centuries-old tradition of hospitality to the persecuted if that instinct were not displayed in Syria's case. This would be an important message from a country which I have always regarded as a beacon of civilisation and it would be an example to other countries. 
I want to reassure Britain of the contribution that people from the land of my birth will make. We all understand the pressures for Britain of a growing population, with new arrivals from within Europe and beyond, and the strains this places upon services. 
But in relative terms, the numbers of Syrians will be small and their record of adapting to different ways of life is, in many countries, unequalled. Syrians are natural entrepreneurs, hard-working, sociable, hospitable and ambitious to succeed. Travel the world and you will find communities of Syrians, both Christian and Muslim, in Brazil, in Trinidad, in the US and in Canada. Everywhere they settle, they prosper and contribute to society . 
Ultimately, the best outcome will be for the flow of refugees to cease and that requires international action to end the conflict in Syria. I very much hope Parliament will face up to that challenge when it re-assembles. But this will require sustained pressure and there is no prospect of an early end to the misery of the refugees in southern Europe, now. 
The Government is evidently giving urgent, daily, thought to its position. The figure of 4,000 people is being bandied around, although the Government has yet to confirm a final number. I implore the Prime Minister to follow Britain's best instincts and accept a fair number of the refugees who have endured so much, and deserve a welcome in Britain's traditionally tolerant and humane society. But I must also hope that this number will not be set in concrete and that room will, if necessary, be found for more if the conflict continues to worsen. 
                       Wafic Said is a businessman and philanthropist                   
+
Lexis+Story+IN 1940, my father and grandfather fled from Belgium to the UK. They were accepted into the country as refugees from Nazi Germany. In 1945, when the Second World War finished, my grandfather went back to find his wife and daughter who had been in hiding with a Catholic family in Belgium. He then applied to emigrate to the UK with them. His application was turned down. The Home Secretary of the time said that he could not sanction "a flood".
So I understand from family experience the difference between being a refugee and being an immigrant. And I understand the importance of the difference. Refugees are fleeing for their lives. Immigrants, by contrast, are seeking a better life. 
The point is not that one is good and the other bad. It is that the difference matters - to the rights of the individuals and the response of civilized countries. That is why the doublespeak in Europe about the current crisis of people fleeing Syria, Afghanistan and Somalia is so distressing. And why the failure of Britain - the country of Kindertransport in the 1930s, the country which led the drive to codify the rights of refugees after the Second World War - is so shaming.
The origins of this crisis are simple to diagnose. Decade-old wars in Somalia and the Democratic Republic of Congo show no prospect of coming to an end; the conflict in Afghanistan is far from quelled; the newer war in Syria is consuming Iraq; and the wider phenomenon of regional instability of proxy wars is causing chaos in Yemen. Reports of widespread torture and harsh conscription policies in Eritrea are pervasive.
The flow of people running for their lives is the result. Last year 20 million people left their countries to find refuge. A further 40 million fled their homes but stayed within their own countries.
Most refugees stop in neighbouring states. The figures from the Syria conflict are staggering. Turkey hosts 1.8 million refugees. In Lebanon the figure is 1.1 million, Jordan at least 600,000, and Iraq 250,000. Globally, more than 80 per cent of refugees are in poor, developing countries. And the response of the rich world has been inadequate.
In Syria the current UN appeal is 34 per cent funded. The figures for the DRC, Somalia and Afghanistan are 45 per cent, 33 per cent and 48 per cent respectively.
So humanitarian provision - health, education, protection for women and girls, economic support - is weak. The pressure on host countries grows. Refugees run out of savings (from Syria we are talking about middle-class people leaving the country). And so they try to reach Europe.
The only way to address this crisis is to deal with those fleeing to Europe as well as those who have landed on Europe's shores. Addressing the flow does not just mean weasel words about achieving a political settlement in Syria. It means effective humanitarian provision in the neighbouring states.
The UN High Commissioner for Refugees has said 130,000 of the most vulnerable Syrian refugees should be resettled. That legal route to hope is vital to undercut the claims of the criminal gangs that the only way to get into Europe is through them.
Within Europe, there are three priorities for the summit on September 14. The German government has bravely set the bar high.
The first is to treat refugees arriving in Europe with humanity and dignity. This means dramatically improving the humanitarian response in Greece. My organisation is building toilets and water facilities on the Greek islands where two-thirds of the refugees entering Europe are arriving. The EU needs to commit to provide funding and technical support for an organised, effective humanitarian operation - plus restoring the naval effort that last year stopped the drownings at sea.
The second is to increase safe, legal routes to Europe for refugees. With very few safe and legal routes into Europe, refugees are left with no option but to take deadly journeys by sea to Greece and Italy, at the hands of smugglers and criminal gangs. European countries have made limited use of the many tools available to bring in refugees safely and legally.
For example, EU member states have taken in only just over 44,000 Syrians since 2013 through resettlement and humanitarian admission, with Germany taking the vast majority (35,000). Resettlement, humanitarian admissions, academic scholarships and family reunification should all be part of effective legal routes to safety.
The third is to make Europe's asylum system fairer for refugees, with responsibility shared among all member states. Europe needs a comprehensive, common asylum policy with minimum standards of protection so that all asylum applications are processed according to international standards. Asylum-seekers should be able to apply to states other than Italy and Greece, especially where they have family connections and job opportunities. This would mean Britain taking its head out of the sand. Just 216 Syrians have been given refugee status in Britain this year. That figure needs to move to tens of thousands.
To pretend that because we are an island we have no role suggests that this is a moral crisis as well as a political one. It is also short-sighted. The UK is attempting to negotiate reforms to the EU; what better way to alienate your potential friends than to let them address an overwhelming crisis alone? The International Rescue Committee works in the most war-torn parts of the world. Yet today we have staff deployed to ensure basic water and sanitation in one of Europe's tourist hotspots. There could be no greater commentary on the foolishness and mean-mindedness of Europe's response to the crisis.
David Miliband is a former Foreign Secretary and head of the IRC
To pretend that because we are an island we have no role suggests that this is a moral crisis as well as a political one
+
Lexis+Story+THERE's no need to feel nothing can be done to ease the refugee crisis.
Charities and aid agencies have been working to help in Lebanon, Jordan and Syria since 2011. 
Now they are giving aid and advice to refugees who make it to Europe. But they need your help to carry on the good work.
The Scottish Refugee Council are an independent human rights charity supporting people who have fled horrific situations around the world.
Their lifeline services support families with young children as they come to terms with life in a new country, as well as helping people who have been granted refugee status in all aspects of their new lives.
Donate at www.scottishrefugeecouncil.org.uk or email volunteering@scottishrefugeecouncil.org.uk to volunteer.
Save the Children appealed to Scots to give to their Child Refugee Crisis Appeal.
Countries neighbouring Syria are sheltering 4million refugees and the charity - who are giving families clothes, food, medical support and legal advice - want the EU to let more in.
They suggest adding your name to the campaign/petition for Britain to take its fair share of refugees and to tweet support using the #refugeeswelcome There's more information on their website - www.savethechildren.org.uk OXFAM work in many of the countries of origin of people arriving in Europe, including Syria. In 2014 alone, they reached nearly half a million refugees in Jordan and Lebanon with drinking water or cash and relief supplies.
They also run a programme in Italy to host asylum-seekers and supply them with clothes, medicine and other basic needs.
Donate to Oxfam's Syria Crisis Appeal at www.oxfam.org.uk SCIAF - the Scottish Catholic International Aid Fund - have no specific appeal but are monitoring the situation. They have been working with refugees in Lebanon, Jordan and Syria since the crisis began. Visit www.sciaf.org.uk or call 0141 354 5555.
ON HAND The charities Islamic Relief Scotland say this is the worst humanitarian crisis in the modern history of the Middle East.
More than 12million Syrians are in need of humanitarian aid, about six million people have been internally displaced, and more than three million refugees have fled to neighbouring countries.
They have launched a refugee crisis appeal. Visit www.islamic-relief.org.uk."
Scotland Supporting Refugees, a new volunteer-led organisation, were unveiled yesterday aimed at raising awareness about the refugee crisis in Europe, campaigning for action and raising funds to support humanitarian relief.
Search for "Scotland Supporting Refugees" on Facebook.
The British Red Cross launched an emergency appeal yesterday.
Head of emergencies Ben Webster said: "We urgently need supplies such as food, water, nappies and hygiene kits as well as emergency medical treatment."
To donate visit www.redcross.org.uk And if you are frustrated by PM David Cameron's lack of action write to him. Also consider writing to your MP and MSP.
+
Lexis+Story+In 1940, my father and grandfather fled from Belgium to the UK. They were accepted into the country as refugees from Nazi Germany. In 1945, when the Second World War finished, my grandfather went back to find his wife and daughter who had been in hiding with a Catholic family in Belgium. He then applied to emigrate to the UK with them. His application was turned down. The Home Secretary of the time said that he could not sanction "a flood".
So I understand from family experience the difference between being a refugee and being an immigrant. And I understand the importance of the difference. Refugees are fleeing for their lives. Immigrants, by contrast, are seeking a better life. 
The point is not that one is good and the other bad. It is that the difference matters - to the rights of the individuals and the response of civilized countries. That is why the doublespeak in Europe about the current crisis of people fleeing Syria, Afghanistan and Somalia is so distressing. And why the failure of Britain - the country of Kindertransport in the 1930s, the country which led the drive to codify the rights of refugees after the Second World War - is so shaming.
The origins of this crisis are simple to diagnose. Decade-old wars in Somalia and the Democratic Republic of Congo show no prospect of coming to an end; the conflict in Afghanistan is far from quelled; the newer war in Syria is consuming Iraq; and the wider phenomenon of regional instability of proxy wars is causing chaos in Yemen. Reports of widespread torture and harsh conscription policies in Eritrea are pervasive.
The flow of people running for their lives is the result. Last year 20 million people left their countries to find refuge. A further 40 million fled their homes but stayed within their own countries.
Read more
Drowned boys buried in home town as London opens its arms to refugees
Most refugees stop in neighbouring states. The figures from the Syria conflict are staggering. Turkey hosts 1.8 million refugees. In Lebanon the figure is 1.1 million, Jordan at least 600,000, and Iraq 250,000. Globally, more than 80 per cent of refugees are in poor, developing countries. And the response of the rich world has been inadequate.
In Syria the current UN appeal is 34 per cent funded. The figures for the DRC, Somalia and Afghanistan are 45 per cent, 33 per cent and 48 per cent respectively.
So humanitarian provision - health, education, protection for women and girls, economic support - is weak. The pressure on host countries grows. Refugees run out of savings (from Syria we are talking about middle-class people leaving the country). And so they try to reach Europe.
"To pretend that becausewe are an islandwe haveno role suggests that this is a moral crisis as well as a political one"
David Miliband
The only way to address this crisis is to deal with those fleeing to Europe as well as those who have landed on Europe's shores. Addressing the flow does not just mean weasel words about achieving a political settlement in Syria. It means effective humanitarian provision in the neighbouring states. 
The UN High Commissioner for Refugees has said 130,000 of the most vulnerable Syrian refugees should be resettled. That legal route to hope is vital to undercut the claims of the criminal gangs that the only way to get into Europe is through them.
Within Europe, there are three priorities for the summit on September 14. The German government has bravely set the bar high.
Read more
                     Evening Standard comment: London will welcome Syrian refugees 
                     Rooms for refugees: Londoners show compassion for the migrant crisis                   
                     'The Mediterranean is now the world's deadliest frontier for huge army                   
The first is to treat refugees arriving in Europe with humanity and dignity. This means dramatically improving the humanitarian response in Greece. My organisation is building toilets and water facilities on the Greek islands where two-thirds of the refugees entering Europe are arriving. The EU needs to commit to provide funding and technical support for an organised, effective humanitarian operation - plus restoring the naval effort that last year stopped the drownings at sea.
The second is to increase safe, legal routes to Europe for refugees. With very few safe and legal routes into Europe, refugees are left with no option but to take deadly journeys by sea to Greece and Italy, at the hands of smugglers and criminal gangs. European countries have made limited use of the many tools available to bring in refugees safely and legally. 
For example, EU member states have taken in only just over 44,000 Syrians since 2013 through resettlement and humanitarian admission, with Germany taking the vast majority (35,000). Resettlement, humanitarian admissions, academic scholarships and family reunification should all be part of effective legal routes to safety.
The third is to make Europe's asylum system fairer for refugees, with responsibility shared among all member states. Europe needs a comprehensive, common asylum policy with minimum standards of protection so that all asylum applications are processed according to international standards. Asylum-seekers should be able to apply to states other than Italy and Greece, especially where they have family connections and job opportunities.
This would mean Britain taking its head out of the sand. Just 216 Syrians have been given refugee status in Britain this year. That figure needs to move to tens of thousands.
To pretend that because we are an island we have no role suggests that this is a moral crisis as well as a political one. It is also short-sighted. The UK is attempting to negotiate reforms to the EU; what better way to alienate your potential friends than to let them address an overwhelming crisis alone?
The International Rescue Committee works in the most war-torn parts of the world. Yet today we have staff deployed to ensure basic water and sanitation in one of Europe's tourist hotspots. There could be no greater commentary on the foolishness and mean-mindedness of Europe's response to the crisis.
David Miliband is a former Foreign Secretary and head of the IRC
+
Lexis+Story+Jerry Topolski filled out the paperwork two months ago to help a family from Syria resettle in Canada. And he had hoped that his application would pave the way for refugee children displaced by the civil war to attend school in north Toronto with his two young sons next week.
Instead, Mr. Topolski, a lawyer, is still waiting for his application to sponsor a family to be processed. He is frustrated, he said, because he is part of a group including his mother, Wanda Topolski, and Rebecca Durcan, a friend from law school, that is ready, willing and able to spend at least a year helping a displaced family integrate into Canadian society. 
"We thought that if we put in an application in July, we'd be able to help children get into school for September with our kids," Mr. Topolski said in an interview on Thursday.
He has not been able to figure out who is responsible for what he describes as a bottleneck of applications. But his experience reveals that Canada's approach to Europe's growing migrant crisis might be too slow. The civil war in Syria has pushed almost four million people to seek refuge in neighbouring countries such as Jordan and Turkey. Most remain in refugee camps and hundreds of thousands have fled to Europe.
The federal government opened its doors wider in January for refugees fleeing the civil war in Syria, announcing it will accept another 10,000 Syrians over three years. The government is expecting private organizations, such as church groups, to shoulder the majority of the burden for resettling these newcomers - a decision that is straining the capacity of these sponsors.
Groups of citizens, such as Mr. Topolski's, can pledge to support a refugee with financial assistance, covering health-care costs and offering guidance in finding work and making the transition to life in Canada. The program was created in response to the Vietnamese migration of 1979, when Canadian citizens brought 60,000 refugees to this country.
Mr. Topolski and his group applied in July to sponsor a family to Lifeline Syria, a movement that aims to secure private sponsorships for 1,000 refugees to resettle in the Greater Toronto Area over the next two years.
Ratna Omidvar, the chair of Lifeline Syria, said it takes nine to 12 months on average from the beginning of a sponsorship application to when refugees arrive in Canada.
Mr. Topolski said Lifeline sent his family a letter this week, saying there would be a meeting on Sept. 16 with a representative from the federal government.
"We have been writing and saying, 'We are ready to go,' " he said.
He said the tragic drowning death of three-year-old Alan Kurdi made the reality of the refugee crisis and how he and his group are trying to help hit home.
"Until now," he said, "it was a bit of a paper exercise."
Alan, his brother Ghalib, 5, and his mother, Rehanna, all died after their boat capsized Wednesday off the Turkish coast as they tried to reach the Greek island of Kos. His father, Abdullah, survived. Photos of Alan's body washed ashore made front-page news.
Ms. Topolski said in an interview that she hopes the image of the little boy will galvanize policy makers to accelerate the process for handling refugee claims. She herself immigrated to Canada as a teenager in 1969. Her experience as a refugee from Poland was not comparable at all to what those fleeing Syria are enduring, she said. She was never in danger and she always had enough to eat.
"We were quite luxurious refugees," she said.
But just like back in the late 1960s, when the Canadian government was a "little bit afraid" of who it was letting into the country, she worries that the process for handling applications is getting bogged down this time around because of fears that Syrians pose a potential danger to Canada.
"They are just like us," she said, "and we should not look for excuses not to let them in."
+
Lexis+Story+Britain will act "with our head and our heart" in responding to the refugee crisis, David Cameron said today as he confirmed he will take thousands more from camps on Syria's borders, but held out against demands to accept a share of those already in Europe. 
Speaking in Lisbon the prime minister said that the unprecedented flood of migrants from the Middle East and Africa in recent months was the "biggest challenge facing countries in the EU today".  
He defended Britain's response, saying "no European country has done more" in seeking to alleviate conditions in and around Syria itself where he said 220,000 had been killed and 11 million displaced by the civil war. 
On Wednesday Mr Cameron said that the refugee crisis would not be solved by taking "more and more refugees". 
A wave of public outrage at images of Aylan Kurdi, the three-year-old boy found drowned on a Turkish beach has forced a full-scale retreat, however. 
Giving the first details of a new pledge to expand the number of Syrian refugees given safe haven today Mr Cameron confirmed that he would expand an existing scheme that offers places to those judged the most vulnerable. 
The Vulnerable Persons Relocation Scheme launched last year has so far seen just 216 people granted asylum in Britain and previously ministers have resisted calls to increase the total above "several hundred over three years". 
Today, however, Mr Cameron said that "thousands" more would now be accepted. The exact details of the expanded scheme would be finalised in consultation with aid groups and be revealed next week, he said. 
By taking people from the camps in Jordan and Lebanon rather than those already in Europe Mr Cameron said he was sticking to an "approach" that did nothing to encourage people to make the dangerous journey to Europe. 
"We will continue with our approach of taking them from the refugee camps. This provides them with a more direct and safe route to the United Kingdom, rather than risking the hazardous journey which has tragically cost so many their lives." 
"Britain has a moral responsibility to help refugees, as we have done throughout our history. We are already providing sanctuary and will continue to do so. 
"As the second-largest bilateral donor to the crisis, we have provided over £900 million in aid to help those affected in Syria and the region. We have funded shelter, food, water, vital medical supplies for millions of desperate refugees fleeing the conflict and helping them survive in the countries around Syria, like Jordan and Lebanon. 
"No European country has done more than Britain in this regard. Were it not for that massive aid, the numbers making the perilous journey to Europe today would be even higher." 
                     The Times has learnt that the European Commission wants to relocate 160,000 asylum seekers from Hungary, Italy and Greece across the EU with binding quotas. The plans, due to be unveiled soon, would send 55,000 migrants to countries opposed to the scheme. 
The United Nations high commissioner for refugees Antonio Guterres stepped up the pressure on Mr Cameron to take part in an EU-wide scheme. In a statement, Mr Guterres said: "Europe cannot go on responding to this crisis with a piecemeal or incremental approach. 
"No country can do it alone, and no country can refuse to do its part. It is no surprise that, when a system is unbalanced and dysfunctional, everything gets blocked when the pressure mounts. 
"This is a defining moment for the European Union, and it now has no other choice but to mobilise full force around this crisis. 
"The only way to solve this problem is for the Union and all member states to implement a common strategy, based on responsibility, solidarity and trust." 
The UN commissioner said the EU must develop urgent measures including emergency reception, assistance and registration capacity to stabilise the situation before agreeing a long term solution. 
He said: "People who are found to have a valid protection claim in this initial screening must then benefit from a mass relocation programme, with the mandatory participation of all EU member states. 
"A very preliminary estimate would indicate a potential need to increase relocation opportunities to as many as 200,000 places. 
"This can only work if it goes hand-in-hand with adequate reception capacities, especially in Greece. 
"Solidarity cannot be the responsibility of only a few EU member states." 
+
Lexis+Story+David Cameron today rejected calls to take in desperate refugees stranded in Europe, saying the 'thousands' of additional Syrians allowed to come to the UK will come directly from camps in the Middle East. 
The Prime Minister promised earlier that 'thousands' more refugees will be allowed to come into the country - but in a heartless move, ruled out taking a quota of those already in migrant camps in EU nations.
Speaking at a joint press conference with Spanish Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy Brey, he said: "We don't take part in this quota system of migrants that have arrived in Europe and get spread around Europe."
In an embarrassing slip, the Mr Cameron accidentally referred to the refugees who would be granted asylum as "migrants"
He said: "We will do our bit by taking migrants...sorry, taking refugees directly from the refugee camps which we think is a better approach."
Mr Cameron said the only way to ease the crisis without encouraging the criminal gangs trafficking tens of thousands of refugees to EU nations was to offer a "safe and secure" route from Syria and the surrounding nations to the UK.
Earlier, International Development Secretary Justine Greening refused to put a figure on the number of additional refugees that would be taken in, but said any action taken by the UK must not "fuel the people smuggler business any more than it already is."
Earlier today, a spokesperson for the UN Refugee Agency said Britain had offered to take in just 4,000 of the 11m people in refugee camps in the region around Syria, but a Home Office spokesperson said the figure had not come from them.
Ms Greening would not confirm this number, saying the details would be announced next week
"The Prime Minister has said we will help thousands more," she told the BBC. "We don't have the details at the moment."
Mr Cameron also announced an additional £100m to be contributed to aid work in Syria and surrounding countries including Turkey, Jordan and Lebanon.
Labour leadership candidate Yvette Cooper said: "Extending the scheme to resettle some of the most vulnerable refugees from the camps around Syria is very welcome and important and is something we have called for over the last 18 months. And Britain is also rightly providing significant aid to help people to stay in the region.
"But the British Government should also offer to help some of the refugees who have already fled into Europe. 50,000 people arrived in Greece in a month and the authorities are struggling to respond.
"Hundreds of thousands of refugees are already risking their lives trekking across Europe, boarding boats to cross the Mediterranean, or putting themselves in the hands of human traffickers out of desperation. Britain must do its bit to help those refugees too and not turn our backs.
"Syria is the humanitarian catastrophe of our generation. We cannot turn our backs. People across Britain want us to be true to our national values - that is why it is so important that the Prime Minister needs to show leadership of what must become a national mission to help."
Whatsapp Mirror Politics
Should the UK be accepting more refugees from Syria?
+
Lexis+Story+The power of a single photograph to capture and personalise the reality of a wider calamity has once more been demonstrated with the harrowing image of little Aylan Kurdi's body being carried from a Turkish beach . The three-year-old boy drowned with his mother and brother trying to cross to Greece on a journey that hundreds of thousands of their displaced fellow Syrians are now making or are about to make. 
                     · EU refugee crisis: latest news and updates                    
The distance that Aylan's family tried to negotiate was not that great, just a few miles. Had the family been given safe passage on a seaworthy craft or by train and road they would have lived. But they are required to risk death in order to get to Europe and are being encouraged to do so by a growing clamour for the EU to take all-comers. Angela Merkel has declared that anyone from Syria who makes it to Germany will be considered for asylum . It is hardly surprising, then, that despite the risks, thousands are now travelling through Greece, Hungary and the Balkans, desperate to reach Germany, from where they will eventually be able to travel elsewhere should they wish. 
Having made this unilateral gesture in order to relieve pressure on countries such as Italy and Greece, the Germans now insist that other member states take a "fair share" of refugees already inside the EU. Mandatory quotas are being drawn up by the Commission, though these do not apply to Britain, which has an opt-out from burden-sharing arrangements . 
However, such legal niceties look like being overwhelmed by political realities. David Cameron is under intense pressure to agree a number to show that he cares, whatever the practical consequences may be. He is being unfairly traduced for resisting these blandishments and there is something deeply unpleasant about the picture of a dead child being used as a stick with which to beat a political opponent . The Prime Minister is as moved as anyone by the sight of a dead child; but he is right to say that it is better to help the refugees remain in situ, in camps in countries bordering Syria, in the expectation of one day returning home. 
Indeed, that is the view of the UNHCR, whose aid chief Stephen O'Brien has urged wealthy countries to step up assistance so that refugees are not forced to seek safety in Europe. To that end, Britain spends more than the rest of Europe put together. The Prime Minister's policy of helping refugees stay put is a rational and moral position but one difficult to sustain when you are being accused of heartlessness. 
However, it is not inconsistent for Mr Cameron to recognise that an emergency on this scale may require some flexibility. A new offer from the UK to accept refugees from the UN camps is a magnanimous gesture which retains our opt-out from the EU asylum arrangements. 
But crisis management is not enough. A coherent long-term policy is needed to deal with the problem at source. That would need renewed international efforts to sort out the civil war in Syria and destroy Isil, yet neither is likely to happen any time soon. 
In addition, the EU's external border needs to be strengthened to deter illegal entry. Yet Hungary is being castigated for trying to do just that by installing a fence along the border with Serbia . If Syrians are to be encouraged to come to Europe then a formal scheme would have to be set up, with asylum processing centres situated close to where the refugees are currently living, mainly in Turkey, Jordan and Lebanon. Europe cannot in all conscience signal that its borders are open but only to those who manage a perilous crossing without drowning or suffocating in the back of an airless lorry. 
And why only Syrians? Two thirds of those trying to get into Europe are from other countries and many of them have an equally strong case to be treated as political refugees. The EU also has to recognise that the Schengen agreement is part of the problem and the abolition of internal frontiers may need to be reversed, if only temporarily. Already France and Denmark have reimposed some border checks. 
Moreover, there is an international dimension here. Why should a refugee emergency in the Middle East be solely a European problem? It may have become a migration crisis for the EU because of its proximity to the region but it is a humanitarian crisis for the world; so what are other countries doing about it? 
Aylan Kurdi's family lived in Turkey, having fled Syria. Even if Kurds are not well treated in parts of Turkey they were at least safe; but they wanted to go to Canada to join relatives only for their asylum application to be turned down . Do EU countries have a greater responsibility for Syrian refugees than Canada, Australia, the United States or any other country for that matter? Arab nations, apart from those bordering Syria, have been noticeably reluctant to help. 
Nor should it be forgotten that quotas impose a ceiling on numbers. Those who have been rejected will try their luck by other, often dangerous, routes. The slogan "Refugees Welcome" may make Twitter users feel better about themselves - but as a policy it risks condemning more families like Aylan's to a potentially fatal choice. 
+
Lexis+Story+Text of report in English by website of Turkish pro-secular, mass-circulation daily Hurriyet on 3 September
[Editorial by Murat Yetkin: "Refugee tragedy: Just the beginning"] 
Pictures of the dead body of a small boy swept to Turkey's Aegean cost on the morning of Sept. 2 shattered the hearts of millions in the country.
The boy was among 12 bodies washed onto the shore in the resort district of Bodrum. The authorities think they were a group of Syrian refugees trying to reach the nearby island of Kos in Greece, on route to richer European countries such as Germany. 
The boy and his family were not able to make it to Greece. Even if they had done, their painful journey to save themselves from the four-year-long civil war in Syria would have been far from over. Knowing that refugees have no intention of staying in Greece, the Greek authorities do very little to halt them on their journey further west and north.
The refugees suffer huge troubles at the Serbian, Hungarian, and Austrian borders. After a short period of denial, the German authorities recently acknowledged the scale of the crisis and assumed responsibility. But still some in Germany are far from understanding the real dimensions of the issue. For example, German Interior Minister Thomas de Maiziere has suggested that the EU should set up refugee camps in Turkey.
Turkey is a country that already hosts nearly 2 million refugees from neighbouring Syria, while for weeks rich European countries have been pondering whether to take tens of thousands. Chancellor Angela Merkel tried to correct this approach by praising what Turkey has done for Syrian refugees so far and asking for more cooperation; in the end, she is talking about an EU candidate country that she does not want to see as a full member.
Syrian refugee camps in Turkey have been praised as the "best practice" in the world by Helen Clark, the head of the UNDP.
But the issue is not only about Turkey and it is not only about Syria. According to a recent US report, Turkey is a major route for the refugee flood to Europe -not only from Syria, but also from Iraq, Iran, Pakistan, Bangladesh, Yemen and Somalia. There has even developed a black market providing fake Syrian passports to refugees from other countries, because European doors are more open to Syrians nowadays.
The flood is not only submerging Turkey. Italy and Spain are also major crossing points to the European continent from Africa. From Libya, Mali, Nigeria, Chad and elsewhere people are fleeing from civil wars, terrorism by radical groups, intolerance, unemployment, hunger and everything that they are fed up with, hoping to start a new life in places where they think jobs, justice and tolerance are. What they see is Europe, separated from their desperation by only a few miles of Mediterranean Sea. News about sunken boats, rejected refugees, and the disappointment they may find in Europe does not deter them. Anything is better than what they have left behind.
This is just beginning. Measures like setting up camps just outside the EU zone will not come closer to providing a solution to the problem -especially the problem of civil wars and terrorism and all related economic problems that shake countries like Syria, Iraq, Libya, Yemen and elsewhere.
If Europe does not want to face the consequences of the crisis, sometimes when it's too late, it has a responsibility to contribute to finding a solution to the political problems at their source. 
Source: Hurriyet website, Istanbul, in English 3 Sep 15
+
Lexis+Story+MPs today told of Britain's "shame" over the Syria crisis as David Cameron was urged to let thousands of refugees from the war-torn country into the UK.
They spoke out after heart-breaking pictures were published showing the bodies of two young brothers washed up dead on the tourist beach of Bodrum in Turkey after their desperate parents tried to take their family to the Greek island of Kos in a flimsy dinghy.
The images of Aylan Kurdi, three, and brother Galip, five, shocked millions of people and starkly illustrated the harrowing impact of the refugee crisis. 
Boris Johnson increased the pressure on the Prime Minister to intervene in the Syrian refugee crisis by suggesting the UK should face up to its "moral responsibilities".
The Mayor said Britain should take more refugees who were "plainly in fear for their lives" but warned against London becoming "a magnet" for economic migrants.
He called on the Government to "look harder" at resolving the Syria conflict on the ground as the policy of non intervention was not working.
Mr Johnson said: "We should take people fleeing persecution and those plainly in fear for their lives. London will of course face up to its moral responsibilities. But we must not become a magnet or pole of attraction for economic migrants.
"It is also time to look harder at what can be done in Syria to solve the problem at source. Of course intervention has not worked in Iraq or Libya. But no one could say that non intervention was working in Syria."
Read more
Pictured: Boys, 3 and 5, who died in Mediterranean migrant horror
Tory MP Nadhim Zahawi, an ally of the Prime Minister, tweeted: "We r nothing without compassion. Pic should make us all ashamed. We have failed in Syria. I am sorry little angel, RIP."
Heidi Alexander, Labour MP for Lewisham East, wrote: "Totally ashamed by UK's response to refugee crisis. We should take more & be part of European programme. Cameron's position is disgraceful."
The brothers' parents are believed to have fled the besieged border town of Kobane last year with their family to escape murderous Islamic State and to have been seeking to start a new life in Canada. But their dream was torn apart as a bid to make a 13-mile crossing of the Mediterranean ended in disaster.
Mother Rehan was also reported to be among the dead. The father, Abdullah, was said to have survived.
Read more
                     Calais refugee crisis: Freight companies warn of 'grave' consequences                   
                     Fresh chaos in Channel Tunnel as 'migrants' cause delays                   
                     Budapest chaos as main station is shut to migrants                   
The family were among hundreds of thousands of refugees seeking a safe haven in Europe and their tragedy piled pressure on political leaders to do more to deal with the exodus of millions from Syria and other countries.
Enfield Southgate Conservative MP David Burrowes said Britain should be taking thousands of refugees from Syria rather than the 216 people so far accepted on the Government's vulnerable persons relocation scheme. The Government is operating its own relocation scheme after opting out of a similar UN programme in which other countries have taken tens of thousands more.
Germany has accepted 35,000 vulnerable Syrians via the UN programme, Canada 10,000, Australia 5,600 and Switzerland 3,500, among others.
But Mr Cameron has defended Britain's policy of offering support to refugees in countries neighbouring Syria - with the UK being the second largest aid donor to the region, having already allocated £900 million.
Nearly 5,000 Syrians have also been granted asylum or leave to remain in the UK in the last four years.
The Prime Minister yesterday stressed he did not believe the answer to the Syrian crisis could be "achieved simply by taking more and more refugees".
Thousands of migrants in limbo in Budapest
He won support today from Crispin Blunt, Conservative chairman of the Commons foreign affairs committee, who criticised other European countries for failing to meet the 0.7 per cent target of GDP being spent on aid or the Nato two per cent target of economic income on military expenditure.
However, Mr Cameron is keeping the Government's Syrian policy "under review" and he faced growing pressure to open the door to more refugees.
Tory ex-Foreign Office minister Baroness Warsi called for Britain to take in more vulnerable refugees.
She stressed that the country has expertise in helping victims of sexual violence and children fleeing war zones, for example those escaping the Nazis through the Kindertransport in the Second World War. And Labour London mayoral hopeful Gareth Thomas urged the capital to offer to take 2,000 refugees "immediately".
As the number of migrants reaching Europe grows, Hungarian prime minister Viktor Orban today said his country will in two weeks have in place a package of regulations, including a phy- sical barrier, to deal with the influx.
"We Hungarians are full of fear, people in Europe are full of fear, because they see the European leaders, among them the prime ministers, are not able to control the situation," he said.
Hungarian police today allowed hundreds of migrants into Budapest's main railway station but authorities cancelled all trains to western Europe, triggering chaos and confusion.
Crowds, many of them refugees from conflicts in the Middle East, stormed a waiting train, cramming children through open windows in the mistaken belief a two-day stand-off with police had ended and they were being allowed to continue their journey west to Austria, Germany and beyond.
Germany is expecting to receive 800,000 refugees this year and has criticised Britain and other countries for not taking more.
But Europe is split on how to deal with the huge influx of newcomers, with Spain arguing that its high level of unemployment meant it would not be able to "integrate" the numbers that it was expected to take.
More than 100,000 people have now signed a petition calling for a Commons debate on the refugee situation.
+
Lexis+Story+"The worst part of it is the feeling that we don't have any allies," Montreal's Faisal Alazem, the tireless 32-year-old campaigner for the Syrian-Canadian Council, told me the other day. "That is what people in the Syrian community are feeling."
There are feelings of deep gratitude for having been welcomed into Canada, Alazem said. But with their homeland being reduced to an apocalyptic nightmare - the barrel-bombing of Aleppo and Homs, the beheadings of university professors, the demolition of Palmyra's ancient temples - among Syrian-Canadians there is also an unquenchable sorrow.
Bashar Assad's genocidal regime clings to power in Damascus and the jihadist psychopaths of the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) are ascendant almost everywhere else. The one thing the democratic opposition wanted from the world was a no-fly zone and air-patrolled humanitarian corridors. Even that was too much to ask. There is no going home now. 
But among Syrian-Canadians, the worst thing of all, Alazem said, is a suffocating feeling of solitude and betrayal. "In the western countries, the civil society groups - it's not just their inaction, they fight you as well," he said. "They are crying crocodile tears about refugees now, but they have played the biggest role in throwing lifelines to the regime. And so I have to say to them, this is the reality, this is the result of all your antiwar activism, and now the people are drowning in the sea."
Drowning in the sea: a little boy in a red T-shirt and shorts, found face-down in the surf. The boy was among 11 corpses that washed up on a Turkish beach.
Last Friday, as many as 200 refugees drowned when the fishing boat they were being smuggled in capsized off the Libyan coast. At least 2,500 people, most of them Syrians, have drowned in this way in the Mediterranean already this year.
A year ago this week, U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry emerged from a gathering on the sidelines of the NATO summit in Wales with commitments from nine NATO countries, including Canada, to join in a military effort to "degrade and ultimately destroy" ISIL. A few days after that Sept. 4 2014 huddle, a halfdozen Arab states signed up. At least a dozen other countries are now also contributing in one way or another.
To say the American-led coalition effort has failed to stop the war in Syria would be true enough. It would also be disingenuous, for two reasons. The first is that to have allowed ISIL to expand the scope of its rampages would have meant war without precedent in 1,000 years of the Middle East's bloody history. The second and most important is that the Obama administration never had any intention of stopping the war in the first place.
Bashar Assad, the Iranian ayatollah's Syrian proxy, has been allowed to persist in his relentless bombing of Syria's cities and his dispatching of Shabiha and Hezbollah death squads. Assad has been allowed to violate Obama's allegedly genius chemical-weapons pact as well, dozens of times.
It is the toll from Assad's war, not ISIL's atrocities, that is the thing to notice: perhaps seven of every eight Syrian deaths (at least a quarter of a million people so far), almost all of Syria's seven million "internally displaced" innocents, and the overwhelming majority of the four million Syrian refugees who have fled the country.
The enormity of the Syrian catastrophe is at least partly what makes the tragedy so difficult to comprehend, but in Canada there is an added encumbrance. It is the delicate sensibilities of established opinion that require diplomacy to be privileged as an unimpeachable virtue, and further require the United Nations to be understood as the sole means by which disasters of the Syrian kind are prevented, or at least resolved.
It makes no difference that no less an authority than António Guterres, the UN High Commissioner for Refugees, attributes Syria's agonies primarily to a failure of diplomacy, or that the UN's governing Security Council is a hostage of Russia's Vladimir Putin and China's Xi Jinping, or that the UN's refugee budget is running well below the halfway mark - $5.6 billion - for Syrian refugees. Funding is already two-thirds shy of anticipated refugee costs for 2015. The World Food Program has been rolling back its refugee food allowances year after year, and in the coming weeks more than 200,000 of the most desperate Syrian refugees are having their aid cut off entirely.
In Geneva, the International Organization for Migration reckons that about 237,000 people have set out across the Mediterranean in rickety ships headed for Europe this year, a number already exceeding last year's total figure of 219,000. The main cohort consists of Syrian refugees, the largest refugee population on earth. Europe is now facing a refugee crisis unlike anything since the Second World War.
In a Canadian context, the only comparable event is Black September, 1847, the darkest hour of the Irish famine, when roughly 100,000 mostly Irish refugees arrived in the Saint Lawrence River in dozens of coffin ships. Roughly 17,500 Irish drowned that year, or died on board ship or in the fever sheds on the quarantine island of Gross Isle. The Syrians are the Famine Irish of 21st century.
There's another illustrative comparison worth making. Canada has settled roughly 20,000 Iraqi refugees since 2009, and last January the Conservative government committed to taking in 10,000 Syrian refugees on top of 1,300 welcomed in 2014. Last month Stephen Harper promised that another 10,000 Syrians and Iraqis would be added to the mix. Here's the contrast: the kinder, gentler Barack Obama administration has allowed only about 1,500 Syrian refugees to settle in the United States over the past four years.
Stephen Harper is right when he says the New Democratic Party's approach to the Syrian catastrophe amounts to little more than "dropping aid on dead people." The NDP is right when it points out the inordinately obtuse and incoherent accounting of just how many Syrian refugees have actually arrived in Canada. The Liberals are right, too, in their call to expedite family reunification visas, show more generosity and cooperation in private-sponsorship efforts, reduce processing times, and allow Syrians on temporary visas to extend their stays in Canada and acquire citizenship.
But what we are all doing - Conservatives, Liberals and New Democrats, Americans, Canadians, and all the dominant elites of the United Nations and the NATO countries that cleave to that sophisticated indifference known in polite company as anti-interventionism - is a very straightforward thing. We are watching Syria die. We are allowing it to happen. And if you can comprehend that, you will know something of the sorrow that afflicts Faisal Alazem and all those other Syrian-Canadians these days.
Terry Glavin is an author and journalist. !@COPYRIGHT=© 2015 Postmedia Network Inc. All rights reserved.
+
Lexis+Story+The war in Syria is in its fifth year and shows no sign of ending. The downstream consequence of this are being seen on the shores of the EU, and this week, right up through the union. It would be incredibly short-sighted if EU leaders focused only on the logistical challenges associated with the inward movement of refugee populations and failed to put some fresh energy into finding a political and diplomatic resolution to the humanitarian catastrophe of our generation. 
For the past 4½ years Syrians have tried to sit it out, either staying in neighbouring countries (Turkey, Jordan and Lebanon) or moving to safer parts of Syria.  
However, sitting and waiting is no longer enough for many thousands of Syrians. 
This is because of the protracted nature of the conflict, the sense that it is a low priority internationally, and the effective control of the country by the twin tyrannies of Assad and Jihadists. Much and all as they love their country, they have finally decided that it is time to move on; and to prioritise the education of their children no matter what risks are involved. And those risks are considerable.
Aid agency Goal set up operations in Syria in October 2012. Our programme there has since become the largest in our history. By supporting populations within the borders we are indirectly reducing the pressure on neighbouring countries. In turn, these neighbouring countries have hosted very large numbers of refugees in recent years (conservatively estimated at two million in Turkey, 1.1 million in Lebanon and 600,000 in Jordan). Pressures 
The EU has, in the past six months, been confronted with these pressures spilling over its borders and on to political agendas. Policy is now being reviewed across three pressure points - including by NGOs such as Goal. 
The first pressure point is Syria itself. It might be too much to hope for some coherent response from the UN Security Council in terms of either the resolution of the conflict or the protection of civilian populations. Goal has reluctantly called for "no-fly-zones" to bring an end to the barrel bombs that have caused so much carnage. Failing any initiatives of this sort, we have to continue to support the provision of humanitarian aid into Syria itself. 
Meanwhile, the UN appeal for countries to fund the humanitarian side has fallen woefully short. Currently the UN appeal for 2015 is a mere 32 per cent funded.
The second pressure point is neighbouring countries, which have borne the brunt of the population movements . The Turkish government realises that many of the Syrians currently living in Turkey will probably never return home, and, rather than allow ghettoisation, is providing basic social services, particularly health and education, with a view to integrating these groups into Turkish society.
However, even those who are in refugee camps are now subject to rationing, after the World Food Programme was forced to cut food rations by 50 per cent because of a shortfall in funding. The final pressure point is now in the EU and, sadly, the one that has forced the issue on to the agenda. Thousands of people are taking to boats and paying traffickers to get them to the EU. It is not a clear-cut situation. As our chief operating officer, Jonathan Edgar has said, while most of the people travelling to Kos are Syrians, there are also economic migrants from Bangladesh, India and elsewhere mixing in with the refugees.Immigration 
How this pressure point is dealt with could define EU politics for a decade. In the UK, immigration dominated the recent election and is likely to influence the outcome of the UK's referendum on EU membership.
In May 2015, the EU agreed a resettlement programme for 20,000 Syrian refugees by the end of 2016. This resettlement programme is the only official EU response, which is a "head in the sand" approach when you consider that 66,000 Syrians crossed EU borders in 2014 alone.
However, even if a moral perspective doesn't inform a more open policy on accommodating refugees, enlightened self-interest should ensure that policy makers put much greater emphasis on Syria and its neighbouring countries, to alleviate pressure on the EU. 
What the future holds is difficult to predict. 
If, say, the Assad government falls, the movement of Syrians out of the country will metastasize and the scenes we have witnessed so far will seem paltry in comparison.
While the humanitarian need in Syria and the surrounding countries grows, the paucity of the political response from the international community to this crisis becomes ever more apparent.
 Barry Andrews is CEO of Goal 
+
Lexis+Story+'The worst part of it is the feeling that we don't have any allies," Montreal's Faisal Alazem, the tireless 32-year-old campaigner for the Syrian-Canadian Council, told me the other day. "That is what people in the Syrian community are feeling."
There are feelings of deep gratitude for having been welcomed into Canada, Alazem said. But with their homeland being reduced to an apocalyptic nightmare - the barrel-bombing of Aleppo and Homs, the beheadings of university professors, the demolition of Palmyra's ancient temples - among Syrian-Canadians, there is also an unquenchable sorrow.
Syrian President Bashar al-Assad's genocidal regime clings to power in Damascus and the jihadist psychopaths of the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) are ascendant almost everywhere else. The one thing the democratic opposition wanted from the world was a no-fly zone and air-patrolled humanitarian corridors. Even that was too much to ask. There is no going home now. 
But among Syrian-Canadians, the worst thing of all, Alazem said, is a suffocating feeling of solitude and betrayal. "In the Western countries, the civil society groups - it's not just their inaction, they fight you as well," he said. "They are crying crocodile tears about refugees now, but they have played the biggest role in throwing lifelines to the regime. And so I have to say to them, this is the reality, this is the result of all your antiwar activism, and now the people are drowning in the sea."
Drowning in the sea: a little boy, no more than five-years-old, in a red T-shirt and shorts, found face-down in the surf. The toddler was among 11 corpses that washed up on a Turkish beach Tuesday. Last Friday, as many as 200 refugees drowned when the fishing boat they were being smuggled in capsized off the Libyan coast. At least 2,500 people, most of them Syrians, have drowned in this way in the Mediterranean already this year.
A year ago this week, U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry emerged from a gathering on the sidelines of the NATO summit in Wales with commitments from nine NATO countries, including Canada, to join in a military effort to "degrade and ultimately destroy" ISIL. A few days after that Sept. 4, 2014, huddle, a half-dozen Arab states signed up. At least a dozen other countries are now also contributing in one way or another.
To say the American-led coalition effort has failed to stop the war in Syria would be true enough. It would also be disingenuous, for two reasons. The first is that to have allowed ISIL to expand the scope of its rampages would have meant war without precedent in 1,000 years of the Middle East's bloody history. The second and most important is that the Obama administration never had any intention of stopping the war in the first place.
Assad, the Iranian ayatollahs' Syrian proxy, has been allowed to persist in his relentless bombing of Syria's cities and his dispatching of Shabiha and Hezbollah death squads. Assad has been allowed to violate Obama's allegedly genius chemical-weapons pact as well, dozens of times. It is the toll from Assad's war, not ISIL's atrocities, that is the thing to notice: perhaps seven of every eight Syrian deaths (at least a quarter of a million people so far), almost all of Syria's seven million "internally displaced" innocents and the overwhelming majority of the four million Syrian refugees who have fled the country.
The enormity of the Syrian catastrophe is at least partly what makes the tragedy so difficult to comprehend, but in Canada there is an added encumbrance. It is the delicate sensibilities of established opinion that require diplomacy to be privileged as an unimpeachable virtue and further require the United Nations to be understood as the sole means by which disasters of the Syrian kind are prevented, or at least resolved.
It makes no difference that no less an authority than António Guterres, the UN high commissioner for refugees, attributes Syria's agonies primarily to a failure of diplomacy, or that the UN's governing Security Council is a hostage of Russia's Vladimir Putin and China's Xi Jinping, or that the UN's refugee budget is running well below the half-way mark - $5.6 billion - for Syrian refugees. Funding is already two-thirds shy of anticipated refugee costs for 2015. The World Food Program has been rolling back its refugee food allowances year after year and in the coming weeks, more than 200,000 of the most desperate Syrian refugees are having their aid cut off entirely.
In Geneva, the International Organization for Migration reckons that about 237,000 people have set out across the Mediterranean in rickety ships headed for Europe this year, a number already exceeding last year's total figure of 219,000. The main cohort consists of Syrian refugees, the largest refugee population on Earth. Europe is now facing a refugee crisis unlike anything since the Second World War.
In the Canadian context, the only comparable event is Black September, 1847, the darkest hour of the Irish famine, when roughly 100,000 mostly Irish refugees arrived in the Saint Lawrence River in dozens of coffin ships. Roughly 17,500 Irish drowned that year, or died on board ship, or in the fever sheds on the quarantine island of Gross Isle. The Syrians are the famine Irish of 21st century.
There's another illustrative comparison worth making. Canada has settled roughly 20,000 Iraqi refugees since 2009 and last January, the Conservative government committed to taking in 10,000 Syrian refugees, on top of 1,300 welcomed in 2014. Last month, Prime Minister Stephen Harper promised that another 10,000 Syrians and Iraqis would be added to the mix. Here's the contrast: the kinder, gentler Obama administration has allowed only about 1,500 Syrian refugees to settle in the United States over the past four years.
Harper is right when he says the New Democratic Party's approach to the Syrian catastrophe amounts to little more than "dropping aid on dead people." The NDP is right when it points out the inordinately obtuse and incoherent accounting of just how many Syrian refugees have actually arrived in Canada. The Liberals are right, too, in their call to expedite family reunification visas, show more generosity and cooperation in privatesponsorship efforts, reduce processing times and allow Syrians on temporary visas to extend their stays in Canada and acquire citizenship.
But what we are all doing - Conservatives, Liberals and New Democrats, Americans, Canadians, and all the dominant elites of the United Nations and the NATO countries that cleave to that sophisticated indifference known in polite company as antiinterventionism - is a very straightforward thing. We are watching Syria die. We are allowing it to happen. And if you can comprehend that, you will know something of the sorrow that afflicts Faisal Alazem and all those other Syrian-Canadians these days. !@COPYRIGHT=© 2015 Postmedia Network Inc. All rights reserved.
+
Lexis+Story+HIS journey began in the killing fields of Syria as he desperately fled a country ravaged by war, torture and oppression.
But five-year-old Galip Kurdi now lies dead on a popular tourist beach after the flimsy boats carrying him and 20 others capsized off the shore of Turkey on the perilous trip.
His younger brother Aylan, three, and mother were also among 12 who died. 
And as David Cameron defiantly rejects calls to allow more refugees into Britain, this is the picture that should shame the PM and other European leaders who turn their backs on the plights of people so desperate to flee Syria they would rather die trying.
The tragic brothers were washed up on the beach at Bodrum in Turkey - a resort visited by hundreds of thousands of British holidaymakers each year.
As the dying continues, Labour have begged Mr Cameron to allow 10,000 refugees in from Syria. The UK has so far accepted 240 under a UN scheme. Germany, which plans to welcome 800,000 this year, branded Britain the "slackers of Europe" over the continent's worst humanitarian crisis since the Second World War.
Shadow Home Secretary Yvette Cooper called the situation "heartbreaking".
She said: "When mothers are desperately trying to stop their babies from drowning when their boat has capsized, when people are being left to suffocate in the backs of lorries by evil gangs of traffickers and when children's bodies are being washed to shore, Britain needs to act."
Fellow party leadership hopeful Andy Burnham added: "This is a humanitarian crisis, not just a tedious inconvenience for British holidaymakers, as our government might have us believe. Our government has done nothing but deploy dehumanising language to describe desperate people."
Former Foreign Secretary David Miliband said: "There needs to be burden-sharing... bigger countries taking more people than smaller countries, richer countries taking more than poorer countries."
But Mr Cameron shrugged off the pleas and refused to back down. He said: "We have taken a number of genuine asylum seekers from Syria, but we think the most important thing is to try to bring peace and stability to that region. I don't think there is an answer that can be achieved simply by taking more and more refugees."
Berlin's ambassador to London, Peter Ammon, said: "Germany has taken in over the last months 43% of all asylum seekers that come to Europe.
"Britain has taken refugees over centuries... and not to your disadvantage.
We expect all partners will make efforts to help solve this problem."
Italy, France and Germany all signed up for a review of EU rules on granting asylum and a "fair" distribution of people.
Migration expert Dr James Hampshire called on European leaders to stop "squabbling" and work together in a bid to ease the agony of those fleeing wars.
The Sussex University researcher said: "The response of governments to the crisis has been to make it harder for refugees to reach Europe.
"David Cameron claims the only solution is peace in the Middle East. He may be right, but he is wrong to use it as an excuse to refuse taking more refugees. Peace is not coming to Syria, and the UK and other countries have a moral responsibility to act now."
Home Secretary Theresa May is due to meet EU ministers on September 14 over the crisis.
Turkish officials said Galip and Aylan were on one of two boats that sank on Tuesday after leaving the Akyarlar coast off Bodrum heading for Kos. Tens of thousands of Syrians have descended on Turkey to board boats to Greece, a gateway to the EU.
More than 2,500 have died trying, according to officials. Charity Médecins Sans FrontiÈres has been patrolling the Med on three boats. In the first 100 days, the crews rescued nearly 11,500 people.
Emergency co-ordinator Will Turner said: "They tell us they would rather drown seeking safety than stay in their homelands where their lives are ntn not worth living." Refugees also tried to reach Greece across its northern border with Macedonia.
As the crisis deepened, a lorry carrying 20 refugees from Syria and Albania, including two children, was intercepted at Port of Tyne, South Shields, by Border Force officers yesterday. Two suspected traffickers were arrested. And two youngsters were among six Iranians held at a service station near Lyndhurst, Hants, after being found in a truck.
In London, passengers began arriving back after being stuck on Eurostar trains for 14 hours as migrants tried to make a bid for freedom from Calais.
Protests in Hungary continued yesterday as police kept up their block on refugees entering Budapest's Keleti rail station in a bid to reach Germany.
And in Austria, 24 adults were near to death in a van with welded doors.
ben.rossington@mirror.co.uk
VOICE OF THE MIRROR: PAGE 8
They tell us they would rather drown seeking safety than stay in their homelands WILL TURNER EMERGENCY CO-ORDINATOR WITH MSF CHARITY
+
Lexis+Story+MPs today told of Britain's "shame" over the Syria crisis as David Cameron was urged to let thousands of refugees from the war-torn country into the UK.
They spoke out after heart-breaking pictures were published showing the bodies of two young brothers washed up dead on the tourist beach of Bodrum in Turkey after their desperate parents tried to take their family to the Greek island of Kos in a flimsy dinghy.
The images of Aylan Kurdi, three, and brother Galip, five, shocked millions of people and starkly illustrated the harrowing impact of the refugee crisis. Tory MP Nadhim Zahawi, an ally of the Prime Minister, tweeted: "We r nothing without compassion. Pic should make us all ashamed. We have failed in Syria. I am sorry little angel, RIP." 
Heidi Alexander, Labour MP for Lewisham East, wrote: "Totally ashamed by UK's response to refugee crisis. We should take more & be part of European programme. Cameron's position is disgraceful."
The brothers' parents are believed to have fled the besieged border town of Kobane last year with their family to escape murderous Islamic State and to have been seeking to start a new life in Canada. But their dream was torn apart as a bid to make a 13-mile crossing of the Mediterranean ended in disaster.
Mother Rehan was also reported to be among the dead. The father, Abdullah, was said to have survived. The family were among hundreds of thousands of refugees seeking a safe haven in Europe and their tragedy piled pressure on political leaders to do more to deal with the exodus of millions from Syria and other countries. Enfield Southgate Conservative MP David Burrowes said Britain should be taking thousands of refugees from Syria rather than the 216 people so far accepted on the Government's vulnerable persons relocation scheme. The Government is operating its own relocation scheme after opting out of a similar UN programme in which other countries have taken tens of thousands more.
Germany has accepted 35,000 vulnerable Syrians via the UN programme, Canada 10,000, Australia 5,600 and Switzerland 3,500, among others.
But Mr Cameron has defended Britain's policy of offering support to refugees in countries neighbouring Syria - with the UK being the second largest aid donor to the region, having already allocated £900 million.
Nearly 5,000 Syrians have also been granted asylum or leave to remain in the UK in the last four years.
The Prime Minister yesterday stressed he did not believe the answer to the Syrian crisis could be "achieved simply by taking more and more refugees".
He won support today from Crispin Blunt, Conservative chairman of the Commons foreign affairs committee, who criticised other European countries for failing to meet the 0.7 per cent target of GDP being spent on aid or the Nato two per cent target of economic income on military expenditure.
However, Mr Cameron is keeping the Government's Syrian policy "under review" and he faced growing pressure to open the door to more refugees.
Tory ex-Foreign Office minister Baroness Warsi called for Britain to take in more vulnerable refugees.
She stressed that the country has expertise in helping victims of sexual violence and children fleeing war zones, for example those escaping the Nazis through the Kindertransport in the Second World War. And Labour London mayoral hopeful Gareth Thomas urged the capital to offer to take 2,000 refugees "immediately".
As the number of migrants reaching Europe grows, Hungarian prime minister Viktor Orban today said his country will in two weeks have in place a package of regulations, including a physical barrier, to deal with the influx. "We Hungarians are full of fear, people in Europe are full of fear, because they see the European leaders, among them the prime ministers, are not able to control the situation," he said.
Hungarian police today allowed hundreds of migrants into Budapest's main railway station but authorities cancelled all trains to western Europe, triggering chaos and confusion.
Crowds, many of them refugees from conflicts in the Middle East, stormed a waiting train, cramming children through open windows in the mistaken belief a two-day stand-off with police had ended and they were being allowed to continue their journey west to Austria, Germany and beyond.
Germany is expecting to receive 800,000 refugees this year and has criticised Britain and other countries for not taking more.
But Europe is split on how to deal with the huge influx of newcomers, with Spain arguing that its high level of unemployment meant it would not be able to "integrate" the numbers that it was expected to take.
More than 100,000 people have now signed a petition calling for a Commons debate on the refugee situation.
Editorial Comment Page 16
'Totally ashamed by UK's response to refugee crisis. Cameron's position is disgraceful' Heidi Alexander, Labour MP
+
Lexis+Story+MPs today told of Britain's "shame" over the Syria crisis as David Cameron was urged to let thousands of refugees from the war-torn country into the UK.
They spoke out after heart-breaking pictures were published showing the bodies of two young brothers washed up dead on the tourist beach of Bodrum in Turkey after their desperate parents tried to take their family to the Greek island of Kos in a flimsy dinghy.
The images of Aylan Kurdi, three, and brother Galip, five, shocked millions of people and starkly illustrated the harrowing impact of the refugee crisis. Tory MP Nadhim Zahawi, an ally of the Prime Minister, tweeted: "We r nothing without compassion. Pic should make us all ashamed. We have failed in Syria. I am sorry little angel, RIP." 
Heidi Alexander, Labour MP for Lewisham East, wrote: "Totally ashamed by UK's response to refugee crisis. We should take more & be part of European programme. Cameron's position is disgraceful."
The brothers' parents are believed to have fled the besieged border town of Kobane last year with their family to escape murderous Islamic State and to have been seeking to start a new life in Canada. But their dream was torn apart as a bid to make a 13-mile crossing of the Mediterranean ended in disaster.
Mother Rehan was also reported to be among the dead. The father, Abdullah, was said to have survived. The family were among hundreds of thousands of refugees seeking a safe haven in Europe and their tragedy piled pressure on political leaders to do more to deal with the exodus of millions from Syria and other countries. Enfield Southgate Conservative MP David Burrowes said Britain should be taking thousands of refugees from Syria rather than the 216 people so far accepted on the Government's vulnerable persons relocation scheme. The Government is operating its own relocation scheme after opting out of a similar UN programme in which other countries have taken tens of thousands more.
Germany has accepted 35,000 vulnerable Syrians via the UN programme, Canada 10,000, Australia 5,600 and Switzerland 3,500, among others.
But Mr Cameron has defended Britain's policy of offering support to refugees in countries neighbouring Syria - with the UK being the second largest aid donor to the region, having already allocated £900 million.
Nearly 5,000 Syrians have also been granted asylum or leave to remain in the UK in the last four years.
The Prime Minister yesterday stressed he did not believe the answer to the Syrian crisis could be "achieved simply by taking more and more refugees".
He won support today from Crispin Blunt, Conservative chairman of the Commons foreign affairs committee, who criticised other European countries for failing to meet the 0.7 per cent target of GDP being spent on aid or the Nato two per cent target of economic income on military expenditure.
However, Mr Cameron is keeping the Government's Syrian policy "under review" and he faced growing pressure to open the door to more refugees.
Tory ex-Foreign Office minister Baroness Warsi called for Britain to take in more vulnerable refugees.
She stressed that the country has expertise in helping victims of sexual violence and children fleeing war zones, for example those escaping the Nazis through the Kindertransport in the Second World War. And Labour London mayoral hopeful Gareth Thomas urged the capital to offer to take 2,000 refugees "immediately".
As the number of migrants reaching Europe grows, Hungarian prime minister Viktor Orban today said his country will in two weeks have in place a package of regulations, including a physical barrier, to deal with the influx. "We Hungarians are full of fear, people in Europe are full of fear, because they see the European leaders, among them the prime ministers, are not able to control the situation," he said.
Hungarian police today allowed hundreds of migrants into Budapest's main railway station but authorities cancelled all trains to western Europe, triggering chaos and confusion.
Crowds, many of them refugees from conflicts in the Middle East, stormed a waiting train, cramming children through open windows in the mistaken belief a two-day stand-off with police had ended and they were being allowed to continue their journey west to Austria, Germany and beyond.
Germany is expecting to receive 800,000 refugees this year and has criticised Britain and other countries for not taking more.
But Europe is split on how to deal with the huge influx of newcomers, with Spain arguing that its high level of unemployment meant it would not be able to "integrate" the numbers that it was expected to take.
More than 100,000 people have now signed a petition calling for a Commons debate on the refugee situation.
Editorial Comment Page 16
'Totally ashamed by UK's response to refugee crisis. Cameron's position is disgraceful' Heidi Alexander, Labour MP
+
Lexis+Story+Insisting that he "cares" about the plight of the migrants across Europe, Mr Cameron on Thursday said that he was moved "as a father" by the images of the dead child in Turkey and insisted Britain will play its part. 
"We are taking thousands of people and we will take thousands of people," Mr Cameron said. "What matter is that when they come they get a proper welcome and we look after them, and that is exactly what we'll do."
He added: "Of course and we will do more, we are doing more."
The Daily Telegraph understands that the resettlement plans will be announced by Downing Street in the coming days. 
One option being considered is to increase the number of refugees taken directly from camps on Syrian borders, it is believed. 
Precise numbers are still being determined by civil servants, but it is thought that thousands of asylum seekers will be brought to the UK. 
The UK has already taken 216 refugees from Syria under the Vulnerable Person's Relocation Scheme. Approximately 5,000 further Syrians have been granted asylum after travelling to the UK on their own. 
The plan is still being fine-tuned as civil servants attempt to ensure the offer to take Syrian refugees does not prompt an increase in economic migrants attempting to settle in the UK. 
Prior to the news that Mr Cameron was preparing a plan to allow more Syrian migrants to settle in the UK, Boris Johnson illustrated the changing mood among senior Tories toward the crisis. 
The London Mayor said that "London will of course face up to its moral responsibilities" and began talks with councils in order to start taking refugees. 
Britain has come under intense pressure from European leaders to accept more of the migrants attempting to reach the continent. 
Angela Merkel, the German chancellor, has said that there needs to be a "sharing of duty" and that equally distributing refugees among EU countries would keep the "the principle of solidarity". 
François Hollande, the French president, has said there should be a "permanent and obligatory mechanism" for accepting refugees. 
Mr Cameron and George Osborne, the Chancellor, last night made clear that Britain must respond to the migrant crisis by "beating" Isil, in a clear indication that the Government is planning airstrikes in Syria. 
The Prime Minister insisted that the "solution" to the crisis engulfing Europe is not "simply about taking people" and said that Britain has "to deal with the problems in Syria". 
Mr Cameron said: "There isn't a solution to this problem that is simply about taking people. 
"We need a comprehensive solution, a new government in Libya, we need to deal with the problems in Syria. 
"I would say the people most responsible for the terrible scenes we see are President Assad in Syria and the butchers of Isil and the criminal gangs that are running this terrible trade in people and we have to be as tough on them at the same time."
Mr Osborne added: "What we need to do to help those desperate families is break up the criminal gangs who traffic in people and led to that boy's death, beat ISIS which is the thing they're fleeing, we've got to make sure the aid is going there to help those families."
In a further sign that the Government is laying the groundwork for airstrikes against Isil jihadists, Anna Soubry, who sits in Mr Cameron's Cabinet, said that Parliament "made a very, very big mistake" by not voting for military action in Syria in 2013. 
She told The Telegraph: "The huge difficulty we have in Syria continues and nobody talks about the fact that Assad is ultimately responsible - people are leaving his country because he has chosen to be a barbaric ruler and in the chaos ISIS continues to grow with its barbarity. 
"It's too easy to blame the EU and the government when we should be saying let's get back to the root cause and that is Syria. 
"We've made it very clear - we put a motion in parliament to keep our options open on Syria and parliament very foolishly voted against that motion...we made a very, very big mistake when that motion failed."
Mr Johnson also suggested that Britain should begin military intervention in Syria. 
He added: "It is also time to look harder at what can be done in Syria to solve the problem at source. Of course intervention has not worked in Iraq or Libya. But no one could say that non-intervention was working in Syria."
The Conservatives are waiting to see the outcome of the Labour leadership election before pressing ahead with airstrikes. 
With a slim majority of just 12 and dozens of Tory MPs opposed to military action, Mr Cameron will need the backing of the new Labour leader. 
Conservative MPs last night welcomed the Prime Minister's decision to reverse his position on refugees. 
Johnny Mercer, the MP for Plymouth, Moor View and a former army officer, said: "I'm delighted that the Prime Minister has made this move. 
"I am pleased that we will take more, but we must similarly now increase our other efforts against this group. I want to see a significant gear change in our aggression towards this group of cowards to tackle the root cause of this devastating situation."
And David Burrowes, a Conservative MP and vice-chairman of the all-party parliamentary group on refugees, said: "I very much welcome us taking what is a compassionate and right step that shows we are 
taking the lead both in providing humanitarian support and refuge."
+
Lexis+Story+THEIR journey began in the killing fields of Syria as they desperately fled a country ravaged by war, torture and oppression.
But five-year-old Galip Kurdi and his brother Aylan, three, ended up dead on a popular tourist beach after the flimsy boats carrying them and 20 others capsized off the shore of Turkey.
The pair's mother was also among the 12 who died on the perilous trip. 
And as David Cameron defiantly rejects calls to allow more refugees into Britain, this is the picture that should shame the PM and other European leaders who turn their backs on the plights of people so desperate to flee Syria they would rather die trying than face the risks at home.
The tragic brothers, who had fled the town of Kobane, besieged by Islamic State fighters, were washed up on the beach at Bodrum in Turkey - visited by thousands of British holidaymakers each year.
As the dying continues, Labour have begged Mr Cameron to allow 10,000 refugees in from Syria. The UK has so far accepted 240 under a UN scheme. Germany, which plans to welcome 800,000 this year, branded Britain the "slackers of Europe" over the continent's worst humanitarian crisis since the Second World War.
Shadow Home Secretary Yvette Cooper called the situation "heartbreaking".
She said: "When mothers are desperately trying to stop their babies from drowning when their boat has capsized, when people are being left to suffocate in the backs of lorries by evil gangs of traffickers and when children's bodies are being washed to shore, Britain needs to act."
Fellow party leadership hopeful Andy Burnham added: "This is a humanitarian crisis, not just a tedious inconvenience for British holidaymakers, as our Government might have us believe. Our Government has done nothing but deploy dehumanising language to describe desperate people."
Former Foreign Secretary David Miliband said: "There needs to be burden-sharing... bigger countries taking more people than smaller countries, richer countries taking more than poorer countries."
But Mr Cameron shrugged off the pleas. He said: "We have taken a number of genuine asylum seekers from Syria, but we think the most important thing is to try to bring peace and stability to that region. I don't think there is an answer that can be achieved simply by taking more and more refugees."
Berlin's ambassador to London, Peter Ammon, said: "Germany has taken in over the last months 43% of all asylum seekers that come to Europe.
"Britain has taken refugees over centuries... and not to your disadvantage.
We expect all partners will make efforts to help solve this problem."
Italy, France and Germany all signed up for a review of EU rules on granting asylum and a "fair" distribution of people.
Migration expert Dr James Hampshire called on European leaders to stop "squabbling" and work together in a bid to ease the agony of those fleeing wars.
The Sussex University researcher said: "The response of governments to the crisis has been to make it harder for refugees to reach Europe.
"David Cameron claims the only solution is peace in the Middle East. He may be right, but he is wrong to use it as an excuse to refuse taking more refugees. Peace is not coming to Syria, and the UK and other countries have a moral responsibility to act."
Home Secretary Theresa May is due to meet EU ministers on September 14 over the crisis.
Turkish officials said Galip and Aylan were on one of two boats that sank on Tuesday after leaving the Akyarlar coast near Bodrum heading for Kos. Tens of thousands of Syrians have descended on Turkey to board boats to Greece, a gateway to the EU.
More than 2,500 have died trying, according to officials. Charity Médecins Sans FrontiÈres has been patrolling the Med on three boats. In the first 100 days, the crews rescued nearly 11,500 people.
Emergency co-ordinator Will Turner said: "They tell us they would rather drown seeking safety than stay in their homelands where their lives are ntn not worth living." Refugees also tried to reach Greece across its northern border with Macedonia.
The Kurdi brothers, along with their mum Rihan, 35, and an unnamed eight year-old boy, and another set of brothers, Zainb Ahmet-Hadi, 11 and Hayder, nine, all drowned. The Kurdi boys' father, Abdullah, and another man made it back to shore.
According to passenger Omer Mohsin 175 people were crammed onto 12 boats.
Omer said: "We paid 2,050 euro each.
The boat was meant for 10 people and we were 16. It sank almost as soon as we reached the open water - those that couldn't swim didn't stand a chance."
As the crisis deepened, a lorry carrying 20 refugees from Syria and Albania was intercepted at Port of Tyne, South Shields, yesterday. Two suspected traffickers were arrested.
ben.rossington@mirror.co.uk
VOICE OF THE MIRROR: PAGE 8
"They tell us they would rather drown seeking safety than stay in their homelands WILL TURNER EMERGENCY CO-ORDINATOR WITH MSF CHARITY
+
Lexis+Story+NO ONE who sees the pictures of Aylan Kurdi, the little boy whose body was washed up on a Turkish beach after his family tried in vain to reach the Greek island of Kos, can be unmoved by this mute testimony to the human toll of the migrant crisis. His family were Syrian refugees, like so many of those seeking to enter Europe. In their case the attempt cost them what they sought to protect: their little boy and his brother. We often talk about the migrant crisis in the round, in terms of millions; sometimes we need to remind ourselves of the individuals in that mass. 
Yet our compassion at the fate of these small children and their dead mother does not even begin to answer the hard questions that Europe must answer when it comes to refugees. Should we, as the Germans have, allow refugees to apply for asylum in the country they seek to settle in rather than that in which they arrived: mostly Italy or Greece? Should we extend help only to refugees from the Syrian war or to the desperate individuals from failed states such as Eritrea? Would our sympathy for this dead three-year-old be less if he came from Afghanistan? If each EU country were obliged to take on a quota of refugees, is there any way of ensuring they would stay in the country that takes them in rather than gravitating to Germany or Sweden? When the war in Syria comes to an end, is there any way of ensuring that refugees are sent home to help rebuild their country? At present the EU record on sending asylum seekers home is very poor.
David Cameron has made the point, quite correctly, that taking in thousands of refugees does not help the millions displaced by war and poverty. We must address the causes of the war, chiefly by backing attempts to engineer a settlement in Syria by engaging with Russia and Iran.
Yet because we cannot help all the asylum seekers, this is not to say we should not help some. Save the Children has suggested Britain could take in 1,500 children. That would help some pitiful victims. We would however have to make this a finite concession; if families know that children travelling alone will be given asylum, many more will be sent on this terrifying journey alone. But we could also take in refugees from camps in or near Syria on the same basis as Turkey does, on the basis of a humanitarian visa system which would entail a duty to return home at the end of the war. Small steps are better than none at all.
+
Lexis+Story+The power of a single photograph to capture and personalise the reality of a wider calamity has once more been demonstrated with the harrowing image of little Aylan Kurdi's body being carried from a Turkish beach . The three-year-old boy drowned with his mother and brother trying to cross to Greece on a journey that hundreds of thousands of their displaced fellow Syrians are now making or are about to make. 
The distance that Aylan's family tried to negotiate was not that great, just a few miles. Had the family been given safe passage on a seaworthy craft or by train and road they would have lived. But they are required to risk death in order to get to Europe and are being encouraged to do so by a growing clamour for the EU to take all-comers. Angela Merkel has declared that anyone from Syria who makes it to Germany will be considered for asylum . It is hardly surprising, then, that despite the risks, thousands are now travelling through Greece, Hungary and the Balkans, desperate to reach Germany, from where they will eventually be able to travel elsewhere should they wish.  
Having made this unilateral gesture in order to relieve pressure on countries such as Italy and Greece, the Germans now insist that other member states take a "fair share" of refugees already inside the EU. Mandatory quotas are being drawn up by the Commission, though these do not apply to Britain, which has an opt-out from burden-sharing arrangements . 
However, such legal niceties look like being overwhelmed by political realities. David Cameron is under intense pressure to agree a number to show that he cares, whatever the practical consequences may be. He is being unfairly traduced for resisting these blandishments and there is something deeply unpleasant about the picture of a dead child being used as a stick with which to beat a political opponent . The Prime Minister is as moved as anyone by the sight of a dead child; but he is right to say that it is better to help the refugees remain in situ, in camps in countries bordering Syria, in the expectation of one day returning home. 
Indeed, that is the view of the UNHCR, whose aid chief Stephen O'Brien has urged wealthy countries to step up assistance so that refugees are not forced to seek safety in Europe. To that end, Britain spends more than the rest of Europe put together. The Prime Minister's policy of helping refugees stay put is a rational and moral position but one difficult to sustain when you are being accused of heartlessness. 
However, it is not inconsistent for Mr Cameron to recognise that an emergency on this scale may require some flexibility. A new offer from the UK to accept refugees from the UN camps is a magnanimous gesture which retains our opt-out from the EU asylum arrangements. 
But crisis management is not enough. A coherent long-term policy is needed to deal with the problem at source. That would need renewed international efforts to sort out the civil war in Syria and destroy Isil, yet neither is likely to happen any time soon. 
In addition, the EU's external border needs to be strengthened to deter illegal entry. Yet Hungary is being castigated for trying to do just that by installing a fence along the border with Serbia . If Syrians are to be encouraged to come to Europe then a formal scheme would have to be set up, with asylum processing centres situated close to where the refugees are currently living, mainly in Turkey, Jordan and Lebanon. Europe cannot in all conscience signal that its borders are open but only to those who manage a perilous crossing without drowning or suffocating in the back of an airless lorry. 
And why only Syrians? Two thirds of those trying to get into Europe are from other countries and many of them have an equally strong case to be treated as political refugees. The EU also has to recognise that the Schengen agreement is part of the problem and the abolition of internal frontiers may need to be reversed, if only temporarily. Already France and Denmark have reimposed some border checks. 
Moreover, there is an international dimension here. Why should a refugee emergency in the Middle East be solely a European problem? It may have become a migration crisis for the EU because of its proximity to the region but it is a humanitarian crisis for the world; so what are other countries doing about it? 
Aylan Kurdi's family lived in Turkey, having fled Syria. Even if Kurds are not well treated in parts of Turkey they were at least safe; but they wanted to go to Canada to join relatives only for their asylum application to be turned down . Do EU countries have a greater responsibility for Syrian refugees than Canada, Australia, the United States or any other country for that matter? Arab nations, apart from those bordering Syria, have been noticeably reluctant to help. 
Nor should it be forgotten that quotas impose a ceiling on numbers. Those who have been rejected will try their luck by other, often dangerous, routes. The slogan "Refugees Welcome" may make Twitter users feel better about themselves - but as a policy it risks condemning more families like Aylan's to a potentially fatal choice. 
+
Lexis+Story+The power of a single photograph to capture and personalise the reality of a wider calamity has once more been demonstrated with the harrowing image of little Aylan Kurdi's body being carried from a Turkish beach . The three-year-old boy drowned with his mother and brother trying to cross to Greece on a journey that hundreds of thousands of their displaced fellow Syrians are now making or are about to make. 
The distance that Aylan's family tried to negotiate was not that great, just a few miles. Had the family been given safe passage on a seaworthy craft or by train and road they would have lived. But they are required to risk death in order to get to Europe and are being encouraged to do so by a growing clamour for the EU to take all-comers. Angela Merkel has declared that anyone from Syria who makes it to Germany will be considered for asylum . It is hardly surprising, then, that despite the risks, thousands are now travelling through Greece, Hungary and the Balkans, desperate to reach Germany, from where they will eventually be able to travel elsewhere should they wish.  
Having made this unilateral gesture in order to relieve pressure on countries such as Italy and Greece, the Germans now insist that other member states take a "fair share" of refugees already inside the EU. Mandatory quotas are being drawn up by the Commission, though these do not apply to Britain, which has an opt-out from burden-sharing arrangements . 
However, such legal niceties look like being overwhelmed by political realities. David Cameron is under intense pressure to agree a number to show that he cares, whatever the practical consequences may be. He is being unfairly traduced for resisting these blandishments and there is something deeply unpleasant about the picture of a dead child being used as a stick with which to beat a political opponent . The Prime Minister is as moved as anyone by the sight of a dead child; but he is right to say that it is better to help the refugees remain in situ, in camps in countries bordering Syria, in the expectation of one day returning home. 
Indeed, that is the view of the UNHCR, whose aid chief Stephen O'Brien has urged wealthy countries to step up assistance so that refugees are not forced to seek safety in Europe. To that end, Britain spends more than the rest of Europe put together. The Prime Minister's policy of helping refugees stay put is a rational and moral position but one difficult to sustain when you are being accused of heartlessness. 
However, it is not inconsistent for Mr Cameron to recognise that an emergency on this scale may require some flexibility. A new offer from the UK to accept refugees from the UN camps is a magnanimous gesture which retains our opt-out from the EU asylum arrangements. 
But crisis management is not enough. A coherent long-term policy is needed to deal with the problem at source. That would need renewed international efforts to sort out the civil war in Syria and destroy Isil, yet neither is likely to happen any time soon. 
In addition, the EU's external border needs to be strengthened to deter illegal entry. Yet Hungary is being castigated for trying to do just that by installing a fence along the border with Serbia . If Syrians are to be encouraged to come to Europe then a formal scheme would have to be set up, with asylum processing centres situated close to where the refugees are currently living, mainly in Turkey, Jordan and Lebanon. Europe cannot in all conscience signal that its borders are open but only to those who manage a perilous crossing without drowning or suffocating in the back of an airless lorry. 
And why only Syrians? Two thirds of those trying to get into Europe are from other countries and many of them have an equally strong case to be treated as political refugees. The EU also has to recognise that the Schengen agreement is part of the problem and the abolition of internal frontiers may need to be reversed, if only temporarily. Already France and Denmark have reimposed some border checks. 
Moreover, there is an international dimension here. Why should a refugee emergency in the Middle East be solely a European problem? It may have become a migration crisis for the EU because of its proximity to the region but it is a humanitarian crisis for the world; so what are other countries doing about it? 
Aylan Kurdi's family lived in Turkey, having fled Syria. Even if Kurds are not well treated in parts of Turkey they were at least safe; but they wanted to go to Canada to join relatives only for their asylum application to be turned down . Do EU countries have a greater responsibility for Syrian refugees than Canada, Australia, the United States or any other country for that matter? Arab nations, apart from those bordering Syria, have been noticeably reluctant to help. 
Nor should it be forgotten that quotas impose a ceiling on numbers. Those who have been rejected will try their luck by other, often dangerous, routes. The slogan "Refugees Welcome" may make Twitter users feel better about themselves - but as a policy it risks condemning more families like Aylan's to a potentially fatal choice. 
+
Lexis+Story+His journey began in the killing fields of Syria as he desperately fled a country ravaged by war, torture and oppression.
But five-year-old Galip Kurdi now lies dead on a popular tourist beach after the flimsy boats carrying him and 20 others capsized off the shore of Turkey on the perilous trip.
His younger brother Aylan, three, and mother were also among 12 who died. And as David Cameron defiantly rejects calls to allow more refugees into Britain, this is the picture that should shame the PM and other European leaders who turn their backs on the plights of people so desperate to flee Syria they would rather die trying. 
The tragic brothers were washed up on the beach at Bodrum in Turkey - a resort visited by hundreds of thousands of British holidaymakers each year.
As the dying continues, Labour have begged Mr Cameron to allow 10,000 ­refugees in from Syria. The UK has so far accepted 240 under a UN scheme. Germany, which plans to welcome 800,000 this year, branded Britain the "slackers of Europe" over the continent's worst humanitarian crisis since World War Two.
Have your say in our new comments section below 
Shadow Home Secretary Yvette Cooper called the situation "heartbreaking".
She said: "When mothers are desperately trying to stop their babies from drowning when their boat has capsized, when people are being left to suffocate in the backs of lorries by evil gangs of traffickers and when children's bodies are being washed to shore, Britain needs to act."
Fellow party leadership hopeful Andy Burnham added: "This is a ­humanitarian crisis, not just a tedious inconvenience for British holidaymakers, as our government might have us believe. Our ­government has done nothing but deploy dehumanising language to describe desperate people."
Migrants
Former Foreign Secretary David Miliband said: "There needs to be burden-sharing... bigger ­countries taking more people than smaller countries, richer countries taking more than poorer countries."
But Mr Cameron shrugged off the pleas and refused to back down. He said: "We have taken a number of genuine asylum seekers from Syria, but we think the most important thing is to try to bring peace and stability to that region. I don't think there is an answer that can be achieved simply by taking more and more refugees."
Berlin's ambassador to London, Peter Ammon, said: "Germany has taken in over the last months 43% of all asylum seekers that come to Europe.
"Britain has taken refugees over ­centuries... and not to your disadvantage. We expect all partners will make efforts to help solve this problem."
Italy, France and Germany all signed up for a review of EU rules on granting asylum and a "fair" distribution of migrants.
Migration expert Dr James ­Hampshire called on European leaders to stop ­"squabbling" and work together in a bid to ease the agony of those fleeing wars.
The Sussex University researcher said: "The response of governments to the crisis has been to make it harder for ­refugees to reach Europe. David Cameron claims the only solution is peace in the Middle East. He may be right, but he is wrong to use it as an excuse to refuse taking more refugees. Peace is not coming to Syria and the UK and other countries have a moral ­responsibility to act now."
Home Secretary Theresa May is due to meet EU ministers on September 14 over the crisis.
Turkish officials said Galip and Aylan were on one of two boats that sunk on Tuesday after leaving the Akyarlar coast off Bodrum heading for Kos. Tens of ­thousands of Syrians have descended on Turkey to board boats to Greece, their gateway to the EU. More than 2,500 have died trying, according to officials. Charity Médecins Sans Frontières has been patrolling the Med on three boats. In the first 100 days, the crews rescued nearly 11,500 people. Emergency co-ordinator Will Turner said: "They tell us they would rather drown seeking safety than stay in their homelands where their lives are not worth living."
As the crisis deepened, a lorry carrying 20 refugees from Syria and Albania, including two ­children, was intercepted at Port of Tyne, South Shields, by Border Force officers yesterday. Two suspected ­traffickers were arrested. And two youngsters were among six Iranians held at a service station near Lyndhurst, Hants, after being found in the back of a truck.
In London, passengers began arriving back after being stuck on Eurostar trains for 14 hours as migrants tried to make a bid for freedom from Calais through the Channel Tunnel.
Protests in Hungary continued yesterday as police kept up their block on refugees entering Budapest's Keleti rail station in a bid to reach Germany.
And in Austria, 24 adults were near to death in a van with welded doors.
The innocent victims of Europe's migrant crisis: Syrian children drown after plastic dinghy sinks at Turkish beach resort To donate to the UN's campaign to help Syrian refugees visit here
How else can I help migrants?
How many people need help?
The UN refugee agency says there are nearly 60 million displaced people worldwide. Around four million Syrians have fled since war broke out.
Where are they coming from?
Eritrea, Somalia, Syria, Iraq, Afghanistan, Bangladesh, Libya, Sudan, Gambia - fleeing wars and oppressive regimes or seeking a better life in Europe.
Migrants or refugees?
Migrants are those who move, refugees are those forced to move by war, persecution or a disaster.
What are European countries doing?
Germany Chancellor Angela Merkel says it will take 800,000 refugees, by far the most of any country, partly to fill a 600,000 shortage in labour.
Hungary is constantly switching its policy. More than 150,000 migrants have travelled there. Whether they are allowed to stay, moved on or kept at bay changes almost daily. The country is building a fence on its border with non-EU neighbour Serbia.
Temporary border controls are being reinstated between Italy and Austria. Last year, Italy was the destination for boatloads of refugees from Africa who had made their way to Albania or Croatia. Greece and Italy are looking to set up reception/detention centres, funded by the EU.
Why are they headed for Europe?
They believe they will not be sent back. They are told Europe is borderless, thanks to the 1985 Schengen Agreement. The 26 European countries who signed it agreed to border controls for those entering from outside Schengen countries but abolished internal controls. The UK and Republic of Ireland have opted out.
+
Lexis+Story+Liberal Party elder statesman Philip Ruddock has gone further than any Coalition figure in blasting the "absent" leadership of the United States and Europe on the bloody turmoil in Syria. 
The former immigration minister said the US and the key European countries being affected by a refugee crisis driven in large part by Syria were the obvious powers to find an international solution.
But he said previous bad experiences in the Middle East appeared to have frightened countries away from taking leadership this time around. "My own view out of Europe and North America is that in a sense they're almost unwilling because of their earlier experiences in relation to Iraq, in relation to Europe's engagement in Libya. And for that reason, the leadership you might normally expect appears to be absent," he said.
Mr Ruddock, who recently visited the US and Europe as a member of Parliament's Joint Committee on Intelligence and Security, said he was "looking for a steer as to where the leadership is coming from" in conversations with the State Department and Congress.
"I couldn't see it," he said. "When you sat down with the Brits and the French, talking about a broad range of issues and you're asking yourself, 'Where is the leadership coming [from]?' You had difficulty identifying it."
His remarks reflect views that have been expressed privately by some government figures.
They follow Foreign Minister Julie Bishop's comments on Monday that European countries facing an influx of asylum-seekers from Syria should do more to combat the Islamic State terror group in that country, including by joining air strikes. The Abbott government is considering expanding the RAAF's air strikes from Iraq to neighbouring Syria.
Labor's foreign affairs spokeswoman Tanya Plibersek said Ms Bishop "should explain why she's urging other countries to carry out airstrikes in Syria when her own government is yet to confirm its intentions".
Mr Ruddock said veto-wielding China and Russia needed to engage in the United Nations Security Council to get an international response to the Syrian crisis, which has driven more than 4 million people into neighbouring countries such as Turkey, Jordan and Lebanon, and further afield to Europe.
However refugees are fleeing not just groups like IS but also the brutal regime of Bashar al-Assad, which would be strengthened by more devastating strikes against the militants.
Former senior Australian diplomat Richard Woolcott said a heavier air campaign could make things worse for refugees. "Bombing parts of Syria ... will probably create more refugees rather than less. I can't see the logic in this."
Paul Power, chief executive of the Refugee Council of Australia, said that Europe needed to "marshal the political will to deal with the crisis within Syria at the source". This would require a regional approach, he said.
+
Lexis+Story+For Palestinians trapped in the ruins of war-ravaged Yarmouk refugee camp in Damascus, life is "a very slow death," its residents say.
"We are always waiting for death - from hunger, barrel bombs or being beheaded," 21-year-old Nidal told the digital media project Syria Deeply. "Death's coming and we cannot stop it. If we don't get food, we'll all die of hunger."
As the world faces the worst refugee crisis in living memory - some 60 million people are on the run in Syria, Iraq and elsewhere from conflict, war and persecution - our collective moral compass seems to be failing us badly. 
Canada's response has been uneven on Prime Minister Stephen Harper's watch. While we have given nearly $1 billion in recent years to the war-ravaged Mideast in humanitarian, development and security help, that's no more than our fair share. And Harper has only recently stepped up our refugee intake, promising to take in a grand total of 44,300 refugees from the region for the entire decade between 2009 and 2019.
Opposition leaders Thomas Mulcair and Justin Trudeau both promise to do better if they form a government after the election.
Whoever takes the reins of Canada's foreign policy after Oct. 19 should step up the effort and use what moral leverage we have to urge other more powerful, more affluent actors - the United States, the European Union and major Asian and Latin American counties leap to mind - to push for a political settlement to Syria's destabilizing civil war, heed the United Nation's call for more financial resources and open the gates to more refugees.
The UN is under strain as never before. It needs $20 billion to get into places such as Yarmouk and worse, to help the millions of refugees in Syria, Iraq, Turkey, Lebanon, Jordan, Egypt and elsewhere who constitute the biggest humanitarian crisis in our lifetime. But its appeal is going largely unheard.
While $20 billion is a daunting sum, it is barely 1 per cent of the world's $1.8 trillion military spending, and is a pittance measured against the sheer global need. It works out to $1 a day per refugee to provide food, clothing, shelter, water, medical aid and schooling. Even so, the UN has managed to raise only about $6 billion so far this year. That's 30 cents per refugee per day. Why the shortfall? Some affluent countries give little; others promise but don't deliver.
As a result, the UN High Commission for Refugees and the World Food Program are finding themselves in desperate straits in places such as Syria, Lebanon and Jordan, forced to cut back on cash assistance for families, consider closing schools, curtail vaccination programs and even trim back on food allocations.
The outlook for far too many refugees and displaced people is "bleak," warns WFP chief Ertharin Cousin. And half of them are especially vulnerable children. "The need is outpacing the traditional generosity," she says, "because of competing demands from humanitarian crises in the region and the world.
"We need those who have given to give more; we need those who have not given to invest in our work."
Moreover, as aid runs short, asylum is in even shorter supply.
The UNHCR reports that barely 140,000 refugees, about 1 per cent of those in its care, find new homes in any given year, mostly because the circle of welcoming countries is very small. That too speaks volumes about the world's callous indifference. It also explains the desperation of the 340,000 asylum-seekers who have arrived at Europe's none-too-welcoming gates so far this year.
As one of the more generous UN donors, and as one of the few refugee-welcoming countries, Canada can do better, and can also urge others to follow suit. As the election campaign unfolds those are commitments that more than a few Canadians would like to hear all the parties agree on.
+
Lexis+Story+For Palestinians trapped in the ruins of war-ravaged Yarmouk refugee camp in Damascus, life is "a very slow death," its residents say.
"We are always waiting for death - from hunger, barrel bombs or being beheaded," 21-year-old Nidal told the digital media project Syria Deeply. "Death's coming and we cannot stop it. If we don't get food, we'll all die of hunger."
As the world faces the worst refugee crisis in living memory - some 60 million people are on the run in Syria, Iraq and elsewhere from conflict, war and persecution - our collective moral compass seems to be failing us badly. 
Canada's response has been uneven on Prime Minister Stephen Harper's watch. While we have given nearly $1 billion in recent years to the war-ravaged Mideast in humanitarian, development and security help, that's no more than our fair share. And Harper has only recently stepped up our refugee intake, promising to take in a grand total of 44,300 refugees from the region for the entire decade between 2009 and 2019. Opposition leaders Thomas Mulcair and Justin Trudeau both promise to do better if they form a government after the election.
Whoever takes the reins of Canada's foreign policy after Oct. 19 should step up the effort and use what moral leverage we have to urge other more powerful, more affluent actors - the United States, the European Union, and major Asian and Latin American counties leap to mind - to push for a political settlement to Syria's destabilizing civil war, heed the United Nation's call for more financial resources, and open the gates to more refugees.
The UN is under strain as never before. It needs $20 billion to get into places such as Yarmouk and worse, to help the millions of refugees in Syria, Iraq, Turkey, Lebanon, Jordan, Egypt and elsewhere who constitute the biggest humanitarian crisis in our lifetime. But its appeal is going largely unheard.
While $20 billion is a daunting sum, it is barely 1 per cent of the world's $1.8 trillion military spending, and is a pittance measured against the sheer global need. It works out to $1 a day per refugee to provide food, clothing, shelter, water, medical aid and schooling. Even so, the UN has managed to raise only about $6 billion so far this year. That's 30 cents per refugee per day. Why the shortfall? Some affluent countries give little; others promise but don't deliver.
As a result, the UN High Commission for Refugees and the World Food Program are finding themselves in desperate straits in places such as Syria, Lebanon and Jordan, forced to cut back on cash assistance for families, consider closing schools, curtail vaccination programs, and even trim back on food allocations.
The outlook for far too many refugees and displaced people is "bleak," warns WFP chief Ertharin Cousin. And half of them are especially vulnerable children. "The need is outpacing the traditional generosity," she says, "because of competing demands from humanitarian crises in the region and the world.
"We need those who have given to give more; we need those who have not given to invest in our work."
Moreover, as aid runs short, asylum is in even shorter supply.
The UNHCR reports that barely 140,000 refugees, about 1 per cent of those in its care, find new homes in any given year, mostly because the circle of welcoming countries is very small. That too speaks volumes about the world's callous indifference. It also explains the desperation of the 340,000 asylum-seekers who have arrived at Europe's none-too-welcoming gates so far this year.
As one of the more generous UN donors, and as one of the few refugee-welcoming countries, Canada can do better, and can also urge others to follow suit. As the election campaign unfolds those are commitments that more than a few Canadians would like to hear all the parties agree on.
+
Lexis+Story+The beheading earlier this week of Khaled al-Asaad, an 83-year-old archaeologist, by Islamic State militants in the Syrian city of Palmyra brings into focus the level of brutality that four years of conflict has brought upon that country. One of the clearest consequences of this is an unprecedented population movement within and beyond Syria's borders, which has led to the largest refugee crisis the world has witnessed since the second World War.
According to a statement earlier this week by Germany's interior minister, up to 800,000 people may request asylum in the country by the end of this year.
The number of refugees and asylum seekers entering Europe or poised to do so is reaching unprecedented levels. Some 225,000 refugees have arrived in Europe since the start of this year, more than half of these entering Greece.  
Meanwhile, according to the EU's border agency, Frontex, the number of aspirant migrants on the borders of the union reached a record high of 107,500 last month. The response of mmber states to the crisis has, to say the least, been highly variable. 
Although the EU as a whole agreed in June to resettle 60,000 asylum seekers over the next two years, the distribution of the burden has been uneven and has reflected very different, sometimes disturbing, responses to the crisis. 
In the UK, where the summer months have witnessed an increasingly hysterical media response to the presence of some 3,000 migrants camped in Calais in the apparent hope of gaining entry to Britain, refugees and asylum seekers amounted to 0.24 per cent of the total population at the end of 2014, according to UN figures. 
Nonetheless, faced with what prime minister David Cameron characterised last month as a "swarm of people coming across the Mediterranean seeking a better life", the UK refused to participate in the EU's relocation plan for refugees. Under that deal, Ireland agreed to take 600 asylum seekers over the next two years, in addition to plans for the resettlement of 520 Syrians by the end of next year.
Elsewhere, the picture is mixed. Slovakia, for instance, has announced that it will accept 200 refugees - so long as they are Christian. In the words of a spokesman for the interior ministry: "In Slovakia, we don't have any mosques." 
Meanwhile, Hungary is preparing to build a 13-foot wall along its 109-mile border with Serbia to keep refugees out.
While the number of those arriving in Europe, or to its borders, includes those fleeing locations in sub-Saharan Africa and West Asia, increasingly it is refugees seeking to escape the conflict in Syria that predominate. Population movement 
Four years of conflict in Syria have led to population movement on a scale that has not been seen since the second World War. Out of a total population of 23 million, more than four million have fled Syria's borders and another 7.6 million are displaced internally. 
By last June, more than 300,000 Syrians had applied for asylum in Europe - just under half of these were in Germany and Sweden alone. However, the challenge faced by the countries of the EU is dwarfed by that with which Syria's neighbours must contend. 
As the UN Refugee Agency points out, 86 per cent of the world's refugees are in developing countries. The Syrian case is no exception - 94 per cent of Syrian refugees are in neighbouring countries in the Middle East, which already face significant political and economic problems. These are dramatically exacerbated by the influx of new arrivals. 
Turkey has the highest number of Syrian refugees at 1.8 million, followed by Lebanon with 1.17 million. There are more than one million more in Jordan, Iraq and Egypt. The case of Lebanon is particularly acute. The balance of the population, Christian, Sunni and Shia, is so delicate that no government has conducted a census since independence in 1946. Refugees now comprise 25 per cent of the total population straining the country's resources and its political stability to the utmost. 
The scale of the Syrian refugee crisis reflects the devastating consequences of four years of fighting in the country involving a myriad of actors. 
What began as an uprising against the dictatorial regime of Bashar al-Assad, inspired by the remarkable uprisings across the region in the spring of 2011, has long been transformed into a brutal conflict that has devastated the infrastructure of the country, leaving 12 million Syrians inside the country in need of humanitarian assistance, according to the UN, and prompting the mass movement of people that has been witnessed over the past four years. 
The crisis has been fuelled by the failure of regional and international actors to agree on how to resolve it. Indeed, the conflict in Syria quickly became a vehicle for the pursuit of very different interests on the part of regional powers. 
For Saudi Arabia and the smaller Gulf states, the removal of the Shia regime of Assad is a core objective. Not only would it remove a regime despised by the Saudis, it would represent a serious blow to their Iranian rivals for regional hegemony. Turkey, once a close ally of the Syrian regime, changed its position and lent its support to radical Islamist groups opposed to Assad. Regime change quickly became a central objective of US and European policy towards Syria also. The official EU position, as restated earlier this year, is to favour a "Syrian-led" process of transition which would see the departure of Assad from office. 
However, outside support for radical Islamist groups in Syria has aided the rise of Islamic State and prompted the beginnings of a rethink of policy in the West, at least. Nuclear programme 
For some, the recent rapprochement between Iran and the United States, which culminated in the signing of a deal on Iran's nuclear programme last month, offers hope that both sides might be open to exploring agreement on the future of Syria. 
Following conclusion of the deal, Barack Obama spoke of the need for "agreement among the major powers that are interested in Syria". This appeared clearly to signal a willingness to talk to Tehran. However, whether the US and Iran could agree on the shape of a Syrian regime without Assad is to be doubted, and even if such agreement were possible, any closer coming together of the two countries would set off alarm bells across the region - among the Arab allies of the US, as well as in Israel.
In the meantime, the Syrian conflict persists and, despite appearances to the contrary, the suffering it causes is largely inflicted on the people of the Middle East and not Europe.
 Dr Vincent Durac lectures in Middle East politics in the school of politics and international relations in University College Dublin. He is co-author with Francesco Cavatorta of Politics and Governance in the Middle East (Palgrave Macmillan, July 2015)
+
Lexis+Story+Text of report in English by website of Turkish pro-secular, mass-circulation daily Hurriyet on 17 August
The number of Syrian refugees in 10 cities across Turkey now rivals the population of local residents and even outnumbers it in one city, a senior Turkish official has told the Hurriyet Daily News.
"In at least 10 cities, the number of Syrian refugees now constitutes a sizable portion of the city," the official said during a meeting with a small group of journalists on Aug. 15. 
The official specifically referred to the town of Kilis in the southeast near Turkey's border with Syria, which he described as a "Syrian city" in terms of population. "The local population is 108,000 and the number of refugees is 110,000," he said.
A relatively small portion of the Syrian refugees in Turkey are in 25 camps across 10 cities. The remainder tries to make a living in cities, many in very harsh conditions.
Some 225,000 Iraqi refugees add to the 1.8 million to 1.9 million Syrian refugees in the country.
"We are in an incredibly unstable geography," the official also said, referring to the problem of foreign fighters transiting Turkey. 
"Think about how the wars to our south, and the members of Daesh coming from more than 110 countries, from A to Z there are all kinds of terrorist organizations in Syria. We have a border of 1,300 kilometres with Syria and Iraq, more than half of all border patrol units are located on the Syrian border," the official added, using the Arabic acronym for the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant [ISIL]. "We have implemented every necessary measure that can be done to prevent the flow of foreign terrorist fighters and to prevent any kind of security threat towards Turkey from Syria where you have one the bloodiest internal wars."
'No confidence in PYD'
Commenting on relations with the Syrian Democratic Union Party (PYD), the official repeated the Turkish position that the Kurdish group in Syria is not on Turkey's "target list," but still expressed scepticism about the group.
"We cannot have confidence when we have concrete intelligence that some groups within the PYD have incredibly good relations with al-Assad," the official said.
"We are tired of the international community putting the responsibility for all political actions in Syria on the shoulder of different non-state actors. We need a comprehensive solution and the 'Lebanonization' of Syria is not such a solution. Giving a central role to the PYD, a highly complex organization, a highly disputed organization, amounts to the international community transferring its responsibility to the shoulders of the Kurdish organization," he added.
Ankara often emphasizes that the PYD's armed forces, the Kurdish People's Protection Units (YPG), are not the sole Kurdish group fighting against ISIL. Turkey is also involved in training of the Peshmerga, the military power of the autonomous Kurdistan Regional Government (KRG) in Iraq, in KRG territories.
The official also urged the outlawed Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) to abandon arms and withdraw from Turkey, but also raised another condition.
"As long as the PKK refrains from declaring a concrete timetable about the disarmament process then military operations will continue," he said.
August/17/2015 
Source: Hurriyet website, Istanbul, in English 17 Aug 15
+
Lexis+Story+THAILAND recently deported 109 Uighur refugees to China, a move that was met with international criticism and questions concerning the legal status of the Uighurs as illegal migrants or refugees. Thailand defended its decision on the grounds that it was a third country, and to show that it would keep some Uighur refugees, it rejected Beijing's request to return all the Uighur refugees in Thailand's detention camps.
The decision sparked widespread protests in Turkey, with which the Uighurs share linguistic, cultural and ethnic ties. Both the Thai embassy in Ankara and the consulate in Istanbul were attacked and had to be temporarily shut. The United States and the United Nations expressed strong concerns that the deportations were in violation of international law, while human rights groups, like the Uighur American Association, condemned the deportation of the Uighur Muslims. 
While the debate mainly centred on the legal aspects of the Uighur migrant issue, these reactions skirted the security implications for Thailand and Southeast Asian countries posed by an influx of Uighur refugees into the region.
In recent years, Uighur Muslims have travelled via Southeast Asia to Turkey with the ostensible hope of escaping the unrest in Xinjiang and resettling in Turkey. In the past, claims by China's Uighurs, a majority of whom are Muslims, of marginalisation and of a curtailment of religious freedoms, have driven their grievances against the Chinese state. This was underscored by a recent ban on students and state employees to fast during the Islamic holy month of Ramadan.
While these Uighur refugees may arrive in Southeast Asia with grievances towards China's treatment, there is the danger that some of them may be clandestinely using Southeast Asia as a gateway to travel to Syria and Iraq. As evidence, in January this year, China detained nine terror suspects who were Uighurs, and 10 Turkish nationals accused of helping them in an attempt to travel to Syria. In July 2013, Chinese official media reported that a Uighur militant who studied in Istanbul and fought with the Free Syrian Army in Aleppo had returned to Xinjiang and was arrested for planning to carry out "violent attacks" in China.
Within this group, there are also a handful of Uighur militants who come to the region with the deliberate intention to link up with Southeast Asian militants. Recently, an Indonesian court sentenced three men from China's Uighur Muslim community to six years in prison on charges of conspiring with Indonesian militant Islamists: Ahmet Mahmut, 20, Altinci Bayram, 29, and Tuzer Abdul Basit, 23, were arrested in September last year in Sulawesi for using fake Turkish passports. The Uighur immigrants planned to meet with Santoso, the leader of a terrorist group known as the Eastern Indonesia Mujahideen, better known as Mujahidin Indonesia Timur (MIT).
Notably, MIT is one of the few groups in Indonesia that has pledged allegiance to the Islamic State. This incident supports China's claims that Uighurs have crossed the Turkish border into Syria and Iraq to fight for the transnational jihadist movement on the pretext of being native Turkish citizens.
The existence of jihadist transnational networks, particularly linked to IS, highlights the potential for these refugees - given their political resentment - to become coopted and radicalised by Islamist militant groups seeking to recruit and expand their networks across the region.
Thailand is home to many displaced persons, including Rohingyas from Myanmar. Thailand will bear an increasing burden to provide refuge for a growing number of refugees. This will lead to deteriorating living conditions for the refugees, which will serve to aggravate their resentment and may cause them to turn to militancy and terrorism to vent their anger and frustrations. The Uighurs have expressed fear to return to China because of the repercussions they may face due to their leaving their home country. In addition, the longer the Uighur refugees are left in shelters, the greater their risks of contracting communicable diseases, which may also expose the local population in Thailand to public health risks.
In light of these security implications, there is a need to improve socio-economic conditions, including the camps of these Uighur refugees, so as to safeguard them against becoming radicalised by militants and terrorist groups.
For its part China has much convincing to do to deal with international criticisms of its treatment of the Uighur Muslims. It will need to reassure the international community, that its treatment of Uighur Muslims is not a source for driving Uighur Muslims out of the country.
There needs to be more enhanced security cooperation between Thailand and other Southeast Asian states, particularly those affected by the threat of terrorism and militancy, including Indonesia, which serves as a breeding ground for jihadist militancy in the region.
Finally, enhanced cooperation and collaboration in the area of counter-terrorism between China and the affected Southeast Asian countries, will serve to deter terrorists from expanding their manpower by radicalising refugees, prevent the flow of militants travelling from Southeast Asian countries to Turkey and then on to Syria, and thereby ameliorate the situation posed by the influx of increasing numbers of Uighur refugees into this region.
The writer is an associate research fellow at the International Centre for Political Violence and Terrorism Research (ICPVTR) at S. Rajaratnam School of International Studies, Nanyang Technological University, Singapore.
( END )
+
Lexis+Story+IMAGES of migrants storming the Channel Tunnel from France and others trying to reach Europe over the Mediterranean have dominated the recent news.
Troca+
